How to cope with the fact that you are a bag of meat sitting on a rock in outer space and that someday you will die

We can not prove the past really happened.  Everything can be proved with “Last Thursdayism”, the philosophical thought that the universe was created last Thursday, where everything that is here and that you remember was created by an omnipotent being, putting on the grand illusion of reality.  We ,of course, can not think this way.  Nothing would have a point, and everything would feel shallow.  Our relationships with others have to mean something, or our lives will not mean anything.  Relationships form a large part of our identities and without them, we would be lost just like if we were not sure if anything is real, because we would not understand the point of doing anything.  Cormac McCarthy discusses similar topics in his novel All The Pretty Horses.  The novel discusses ideas about loss and its connection with relationships and identity.  The novel is set after WW2 in Southern Texas and rural Mexico.   The novel follows teenager John Grady,  running away to Mexico from his grandfather’s death and his family farm being sold.  He meets many people and goes through many different experiences and ultimately matures and figures out how to deal with loss.  In All The Pretty Horses, Cormac McCarthy explores the fragility of life and the importance of identity, answering the spiritual question of how we should remember the lost, ultimately explaining the power of legacy through one’s impact on another life.
McCarthy writes about the truly depressing theme of how easily our identity is lost ultimately concluding that we should live life by the moment to build relationships with others.  After John Grady starts his journey to Mexico, McCarthy stops the narrative and describes an old horseskull.  McCarthy chronicles,
 “There was an old horseskull in the brush and he squatted and picked it up and turned it in his hands. Frail and brittle. Bleached paper white. He squatted in the long light holding it, the comicbook teeth loose in their sockets. The joint in the cranium like a ragged welding of the bone plates. The run of sand in the brainbox when he turned it.” (20)  
Here McCarthy uses more metaphors and descriptive language to make a statement about the fragility of life.  His language creates an almost sentimental atmosphere.  McCarthy momentarily stops the progression of the story to describe an old horseskull.  By doing this, he gives significance to the segment.  McCarthy uses descriptive language describing “the joint in the cranium like a ragged welding of the bone plates.”  The ragged welding symbolizes something that is sloppily put together.  Ragged welds are not as strong and the joints are easier to pull apart.  This is McCarthy’s way of saying that life and memories are fragile and are easily broken.  McCarthy also uses descriptive language to describe the nature of the skull.  He describes it is “Frail and brittle. Bleached paper white.”  Because the skull has been left out in the sun, it loses its color and identity.  This represents McCarthy’s recurring theme about how after you are lost, the memory of your identity will eventually be lost.  Your identity is who you are, what your experiences are, everything you have worked for.   Identity is power.  It scares us that it will be lost when we are gone.   Because McCarthy uses figurative language, he is able to emphasize his depressing theme about how people are easily lost.  At the beginning of the book, John Grady’s father passes away and John Grady looks down on his father in his coffin.  McCarthy describes,  “Lastly he looked at the fade so caved and drawn among the folds of funeral cloth, the yellowed moustache, the eyelids paper thin.  That was not sleeping.  That was not sleeping” (3)  McCarthy uses descriptive language and repetition to describe the fragility of life.  McCarthy first describes the “yellowed moustache”.  When objects yellow, that means that they are old and less pretty than they used to be.  This follows McCarthy’s overarching theme in this book about loss.  Everything gets older and decays which reveals the inescapable reality of life.  This book talks about how to accept that inevitable loss.  Even though death is inescapable, we can learn to accept and deal with it.  McCarthy also uses repetition by saying “That was not sleeping” twice to emphasize the importance of the statement.  This statement shows the permanent nature of death.  When you sleep, you eventually wake up, but when you die, you stay that way.  Loss is hard because it easily happens and it is permanent. McCarthy then describes the delicateness of life, describing the “paper thin” eyelids.  Paper is flimsy and weak, so McCarthy uses it to  draw a comparison to life. Just like paper, life can be easily torn and destroyed at any moment.  McCarthy perhaps is suggesting that we should deal with our inevitable loss of identity by enjoying life by the day.  The people that remember you are the people that you build relationships with.  McCarthy might be suggesting that instead of worrying about our inevitable, permanent loss, we should spend it making relationships with others.  In this quote, McCarthy draws metaphors to emphasize his theme about how easily people are lost and how we need and can deal with the inevitability of loss through building a legacy through the people we make relationships with.
McCarthy finally highlights the importance of remembering the past because one must stay grounded with the lost’s memories because significant people make significant impacts on one’s identity, coming to the conclusion that our legacy through others is most important.  McCarthy describes John Grady’s family’s tragic history.  McCarthy writes,
“his grandfather was the oldest of eight boys and the only one to live past the age of twenty-five. They were drowned, shot, kicked by horses. They perished in fires.... Twelve years later when his wife was carried off in the influenza epidemic they still had no children. A year later he married his dead wife's older sister and a year after this the boy's mother was born and that was all the borning that there was. The Grady name was buried with that old man the day the norther blew the lawnchairs over the dead cemetery grass.” (25)
  This quote deals with the lost and how memories are passed through children. In this scene, the narrator describes how all of John Grady’s family dies at an early age.  His grandfather is the only survivor and only has one kid.  Finally, McCarthy explains that “The Grady name was buried with the old man”.  We live in a society where the man’s family name is passed down when one has kids. Because his grandfather has a daughter, the Grady name is not passed down.  Family names are a powerful way to pass down memories because they are common to everyone in that family.  When you have the same last name as your family, you feel a sense of unity.  When that name is lost, all these people who died are not remembered as well and lost forever quicker.  This quote further emphasizes McCarthy’s theme about loss.  With this, McCarthy emphasizes the importance of passing information such as family names or larger ideas such as culture and tradition down to family to prevent people’s memories from being lost forever. Family is incredibly important to one’s identity.  They are the people that taught you how to perceive the world and guided you to maturity.  When you lose a connection to your family, such as through a last name, you lose an important part of your identity.  With this quote, McCarthy reveals how powerful strong relationships are.  Without them, everyone’s identities are lost.  At the end of the novel, McCarthy eloquently describes John Grady honoring his deceased family caretaker.  McCarthy chronicles,
“he stood hat in hand over the unmarked earth. This woman who had worked for his family fifty years. She had cared for his mother as a baby and she had worked for his family long before his mother was born and she had known and cared for the wild Grady boys...and he stood holding his hat and turned his wet face to the wind and for a moment he held out his hands as if to steady himself or as if to bless the ground there or perhaps to slow the world that was rushing away and seemed to care nothing for the old or the young or rich or poor or dark or pale or he or she. Nothing for their struggles, nothing for their names. Nothing for the living or the dead.” (301).
McCarthy again describes life and one’s legacy in a beautiful quote.  Here McCarthy describes his family’s caretaker.  She worked incredibly hard for fifty years caring for the Grady family.  Her memory gets almost forgotten by everybody except John Grady.  McCarthy beautifully says the world “seemed to care nothing for the old or the young..Nothing for their struggles, nothing for their names.”  Even though she worked hard and struggled the world does not care by having no one remember her.  The world naturally does not remember you when you die because people who remember you are eventually lost. McCarthy reminds us here that no matter how important you think you are, you’ll eventually be forgotten.  But perhaps McCarthy also uses that to explain that we should focus on the present instead of worrying about how people remember you.  We should worry about making our own and other people’s lives better rather than worrying about how we will be remembered.  Here, Grady’s family’s caretaker is undoubtedly an important part of Grady’s identity.  Grady sincerely mourns her loss because of her loss.  Grady takes a moment here to really remember someone’s legacy.  He has to “slow the world that was rushing away” in order to remember her.  The world pushes her memory away, but John Grady pulls her memory back for a moment and keeps his identity grounded with others memories.  Memories are how we can prevent lost, but that will not be forever.  In this beautiful existentialist quote McCarthy reminds us to be humble because everything will eventually be lost.
McCarthy explains the complex ideas of the easiness and permanence of death. Instead of just staying on that, McCarthy offers a solution of building relationships. We should make relationships with others because you keep part of their identity as your identity or if you’re lost first, your legacy is carried on through another’s identity.  Life is fragile, so the world pulls the lost away from us and we should try to keep the past even for a moment to keep part of our identities.  McCarthy suggests our true worth in life is how we impact others.  If we spend our existence worrying about ourselves, who will carry our memory and identity?  Our existence is so short and fragile, so maybe we should find comfort in positively shaping other’s identities and hold each other tight before everything fades.
During the Great Depression, people were rethinking what success really meant in society.  People were suffering financially and John Steinbeck critiqued mainstream success through his book, Cannery Row.  In the book Cannery Row, it is a collection of vignettes about the people and the life of Cannery Row, a town by the sea near Monterey, California that’s known for canning seafood.  The main characters are:  Doc a marine biologist a “fountain of knowledge” to the community, Lee Chong, owns a grocery store that,”while not a model of neatness, was a miracle of supply” (5), Mack and the Boys a “little group of men who had in common no families, no money, and no ambitions beyond food, drink and contentment.” (9)  While mainstream society believes that success has close ties to money, Steinbeck critiques that idea by arguing that success is actually avoiding the spiral of wanting wealth and that success is also about community.

In mainstream society, people think that success means having and getting large amounts of wealth, but Steinbeck challenges that idea.   As a short vignette, Steinbeck describes a short scene of a tidepool that Doc is collecting from.  ”The sea is very clear and the bottom becomes fantastic with hurrying, fighting, feeding, breeding animals...Than the creeping murderer, the octopus, steals out, moving like a gray mist, pretending now to be a bit of weed, now a rock, now a lump of decaying meat..Then suddenly it leaps savagely on the crab [and] the octopus murders it.” Steinbeck describes the tidepool is a place full of life and death.  The tidepool is a representation or metaphor of real life and  everyone is fighting and trying hard to survive in this world.  It’s a useless struggle for power and wealth.  The octopus represents the really rich people, the top 1%, business people, the monopolists since they eat up everything and survive really well and have full control.  Therefore, Steinbeck critiques mainstream success by creating a metaphor with the tidepool, claiming that everything is a useless struggle for wealth.  Steinbeck also critiques the mainstream idea of success by saying that, “In the world ruled by tigers with ulcers, rutted by strictured bulls, scavenged by blind jackals, Mack and the Boys avoid the trap, walk around the poison, step over the noose while a generation of trapped, poisoned, and trussed-up men scream at them and call them no-goods, come-to-bad-ends, blots-on-the-town, thieves, rascal bums.  What can it profit a man to gain the whole world and to come to his property with a gastric ulcer, a blown prostate, and bifocals?”  When Mack and the Boys live in a world full of vicious creatures, Mack and the Boys ignore them, and not get affected by them, but the people who are affected call them bums.  The tigers, bulls, jackals are similar to the octopus in the previous quote and are the people who control society and everyone is eaten up by them while they blindly fight each other.  Mack and the Boys are completely immune and unaffected because they don’t care about money, or the amount of fame they have.  In the eyes of mainstream society, they are the lowest of low, and are looked down upon, but the people who look down on them are the ones that are blindly fighting.  The people who look down on them have the “gastric ulcer” or the “blown prostate.”  Therefore, Steinbeck critiques mainstream society by saying that the people we call bums are really the people who are successful.

Steinbeck argues that success means to avoid the temptation and greed of mainstream success.  After going and collecting many frogs, Mack and the Boys set up a deal with Lee Chong, a general store owner to use frogs as merchandise. Lee keeps raising the prices and also  The poison of greed was already creeping into the innocent and laudable merchandising agreement.  Bitterness was piling up..[Mack and the Boys were] not mercantile men.  They did not measure their joy in goods sold, their egos in bank balances, nor their loves in what they cost.?” (17)  As greed became a problem with Lee Chong, Mack and the Boys were unaffected even though they were ripped off.  What the Steinbeck means by they didn’t measure their joy in goods sold is that Mack and the Boys don’t need wealth to be happy.  Mack and the Boys are unaffected in a situation where greed is rampant. Consequently, Steinbeck critiques success by saying that Mack and the Boys are successful in their own way, in Steinbeck's eyes, even though society calls them bums and look down on them.  One doesn't need huge sums of money to be happy, one needs to avoid the trap of mainstream success. When Doc, a marine biologist in Cannery, describes Mack and the Boys to a friends.  “Look at them.  There are your true philosophers.  I think they survive in this particular world better then other people.  In a time when people tear themselves to pieces with ambition and nervousness and covetousness, they are relaxed.  All of our so-called successful men are sick men, with bad stomachs, and bad souls but mack and the boys are healthy and curiously clean.  The can do what they want.  They can satisfy their appetites without calling them something else.”  Doc describes Mack and the Boys as people who do well in this world and have a true understanding the world.  As people fall into the trap and temptation of mainstream success, Mack and the Boys stay away.  They can thrive and live without being mainstream successful.  They know that if they try to be mainstream successful, they’ll end up destroying themselves like the people who get the “gastric ulcer” or “bifocals”.  They are truly successful in Steinbeck’s eyes because they can be happy without money, without wealth, without greed.

Steinbeck also argues that success  has close ties to making good relationships with other people and benefitting the community, while mainstream success is based on an individual’s achievements.  Doc, the marine biologist, had “dug himself into Cannery Row to an extent not even he expected. He became the fountain of philosophy and science and art.  In the laboratory the girls from Dora’s heard the Plain Songs and Gregorian music for the first time..Henri the painter heard for the first time the Book of the Dead...Doc would listen to any kind of nonsense and change it for you to a kind of wisdom….And everyone who thought of him thought next, “I really must do something nice for Doc.”” (28-29)  Doc has made his way into Cannery Row by being benevolent and kind to the other people in Cannery Row.  When Doc was benevolent, kind, open to other people, and shared his knowledge, people accepted him into their community.  The more he acted benevolently and kind, the more people would say, “I really must do something nice for Doc.”  When Doc helps people out, he’s helping the community be more successful.  To truly be successful, Steinbeck says that one needs to be kind and generous to the people around them if they can.  Another person in the Cannery Row community who is benevolent is Lee Chong.  “Lee’s position in the community surprised him as much as he could be surprised.  Over the course of the ears everyone in Cannery Row owed him money.  He never pressed his clients, but when the bill became too large, Lee cut off credit.” (6)  Lee Chong has been nice and not greedy earning him a reputation in Cannery Row.  When Lee Chong forgives people of their debt, he’s also helping out the community in a way.  During the Great Depression, people were struggling to live, and Lee Chong helps people out.  Again, like Doc, Lee Chong is really successful because he is kind and generous to other people.  Steinbeck argues that not being selfish or greedy is a great thing and that’s how Steinbeck critiques mainstream success.

Critiquing the mainstream idea of success, gaining money, fame, power, Steinbeck suggests that true success is staying away from the negative spiral of mainstream success.  Being successful in Steinbeck’s eyes is being kind and caring to the people around.  In Mainstream society, people struggle and fight for power, but it’s a useless struggle.  Also, to really be successful one has to avoid the temptation of of mainstream success and not be under the power of the jackals, the octopuses, the tigers of this world.  Being successful, Steinbeck argues, is the ability to help the people in one’s community or neighbors especially during a time of hardship such as the Great Depression. In this world there is duality, good or bad, right or wrong.  There is also Steinbeck success, avoiding the negative spiral of mainstream society, and to help one’s neighbors, but getting shunned or made fun of in society.   There is also mainstream success, going after money in a dog-eat-dog world in a useless struggle, but getting power, success, fame, and respect.  Learning which side to pick or finding an equilibrium is crucial.  In today’s society, we look down on people who embrace Steinbeck success, like Mack and the Boys, but look up to people who strive after mainstream success, the people with the “blown prostate” or “gastric ulcer” who are controlled by the jackals, tigers, octopuses.  Maybe we need to change how we see people in society.  For example, or society would improve if a person who had the capability of improving the world, like donating money to charity, volunteering, etc., our world would become a better place.

“Our Father who art in nature, who has given the gift of survival to the coyote, the common brown rat, the English sparrow, the house fly and the moth, must have a great and overwhelming love for no-goods and blots-on-the-town and bums, and Mack and the boys. Virtues and graces and laziness and zest. Our Father who art in nature.” (15)
John Steinbeck, Cannery Row
A Mercy Essay
A man sees a boy feeding a stray dog.   He asks, “Why feed the dog?   It doesn’t make much of a difference in the world.  There are millions of stray dogs.”  The boy replies, “But it makes a world of difference to this dog.”  Mercy is an act of kindness given from a compassionate person to someone in need. Toni Morrison's A Mercy discusses the impact of mercy on people's lives in America during the late 17th century.  A Mercy is told from many different perspectives and one perspective is from a girl named Sorrow.  She works on a ship her whole life, but is shipwrecked and then is taken care of by multiple people.  In A Mercy, many characters receive mercy, such as Sorrow, and mercy changes the outcome of their likely fates.  Through Sorrow’s experiences, Toni Morrison illustrates that mercy has the power to positively change someone's life: Sorrow's life is positively changed because of (1) mercy shown from the Sawyers' family which fulfills her physiological needs; (2) mercy shown from Jacob fulfills her need for continuity; (3) mercy shown from Will and Scully that give her life meaning.
Morrison illustrates that if Sorrow was not shown mercy by the sawyers' family after she was shipwrecked, she would have died at a young age.  For her whole life, Sorrow has lived on a ship, but is shipwrecked. Morrison describes the dire situation after the shipwreck, "After searching for survivors and food, fingering spilt molasses from the deck straight into her mouth...the bits of dead fish they ate intensified their thirst."  (117) Sorrow could have easily died from exposure to the elements.  Sorrow was barely surviving and ate scraps that would not last very long.  If one is dead, nothing else matters.  Nothing can be done to improve one’s situation.  Sorrow's destiny was a premature death and all hope in her living would have been lost.  Instead, the sawyers' family shows her mercy and saves her life.  After Sorrow is found and taken in by the sawyer family, she "woke up naked under a warm wet cloth on her forehead....The sawyer's wife came in holding a man's shirt and a boy's breeches 'These will have to do for now,' she said.  'I'll have to make you something more fitting..Sorrow put on the dry boy clothes, then followed a scent of food.  Once fed an extravagant breakfast, she was alert enough to say things. (117-118)  The sawyer family provided for her physiological needs by giving her shelter, clothing, and food.  The sawyer family nicely took care of Sorrow and gave her much more than she needed to survive.  Survival, above all, is always the first necessity of humans. This act of mercy gave her life from her destiny of premature death.
Morrison illustrates that if Sorrow had not been shown mercy by Jacob during her stay with the sawyers' family, she would have eventually been cast out by the sawyer's family and left to die. Even after the Sawers' family showed her mercy by giving her the basic necessities, Sorrow proved to be useless to them by not being able to do basic chores. As Sorrow has lived on a ship a large part of her life, her  "bare feet fought with the distressing gravity of land. She stumbled and tripped so much on that first day at the pond that when two goslings were attacked by a dog and chaos followed, it took forever to regroup the flock.  She kept at it a few more days, until the housewife threw up her hands" (119).  Sorrow had difficulty adjusting to land, so she struggled with her chores, and the Sawyer's wife gets frustrated.  It is very frustrating to try to get someone to do a seemingly simple task, but seeing them do a poor job at it.  That frustration over time can lead to disliking that person and to the realization that it is more trouble to have that person around.  If Sorrow had stayed, she might eventually be forced to leave.  Sorrow would not last very long by herself, so her situation is dire.  Sorrow would not have been able to have continuity in her life and she faced the immediate risk of being cast out.  Before she was cast out, Jacob, a farm owner, shows up and was willing to take her from the Sawyers’.  Jacob knew Sorrow was not very capable, and when he recalled the situation, he described that, "Once before he found it hard to refuse when called on to rescue an unmoored, unwanted child." (33)  Jacob finds it hard to not take in an unwanted child such as Sorrow. Jacob taking Sorrow is an act of mercy.  If Jacob was out to find the best labor for his farm, he would not take Sorrow, instead finding someone more capable.  Jacob took Sorrow because he felt compassion for Sorrow, saw her dire situation, and ignored her ability to work.  If Jacob had not taken Sorrow, she would have been cast out.  By showing Sorrow mercy, he fulfills her need to be safe and gives her a long term solution.
Morrison illustrates that if Sorrow had not been shown mercy by Will and Scully when she delivers her baby, neither Sorrow or her baby may have survived, and Sorrow would lose all meaning in her life.  Once on Jacob’s farm, Sorrow gets pregnant.  Lina, another servant on the farm thinks that Sorrow is cursed because she thinks she suffers a mental illness because she can’t focus and do her tasks. Lina helps Sorrow deliver her baby, but drowns it because she thinks that Sorrow is cursed and unconvincingly tells Sorrow it was stillborn.  Sorrow mentions that, "it took years for Sorrow's steady thoughts of her baby breathing water under Lina's palm to recede" (123). For years, Sorrow is traumatized by the thought of Lina drowning her baby.  Drowning a baby is a horrible thing to do and horrifying to the mother. Because of that, Sorrow can not get over it.  Lina perceives that Sorrow has a mental illness because even though her physiological needs and safety needs are fulfilled, she does not have a purpose.  By drowning her baby, Lina made Sorrow’s condition much worse and moved her farther away from finding a purpose.  Sorrow needed someone to show her mercy and demonstrate kindness.  When Sorrow is pregnant again, she is forced to go somewhere away from the farm because she does not trust Lina.  Sorrow goes out into the woods to have her baby, but is found by two of Jacob’s male servants, Will and Scully.  “They both understood Sorrow’s plight as quickly as they would any creature about to foal. Clumsy a bit, their purpose confined to the survival of the newborn, they set to work”  (32).  As soon as Will and Scully saw Sorrow in need, they immediately and willingly come to her aid.   Rather than doing what Lina did to Sorrow’s baby, they cared for Sorrow and her baby and Sorrow was able to have and keep her healthy baby.  If Will and Scully had not helped Sorrow, both her and the baby’s lives would be in grave danger.  Sorrow's baby brings Sorrow meaning and purpose in her life and makes her feel complete.  This act of mercy has a very powerful effect because it is so much better than how Lina treated her.  If Sorrow had not been shown mercy, she would have continued to be traumatized from her first pregnancy and she would have not found a purpose in life.
Sorrow's story showed how mercy she received enabled her to fulfill Maslow's hierarchy of needs:  physiological needs, need for continuity, and meaning in life  Sorrow's basic physiological needs are fulfilled by the mercy from sawyers' family because  they kept her alive.  Sorrow's need for continuity are fulfilled by mercy from Jacob because he takes her in his household for a long time despite Sorrow's incompetence at household work.  Sorrow's need for purpose and meaning in life is fulfilled by mercy from Will and Scully because they enable her to have a baby, who makes Sorrow's life complete and meaningful.  Morrison demonstrates how it is possible to go from a low standing situation to achieve their potential when they get the support they need through acts of mercy.  Through the story of Sorrow, Morrison inspires us to be merciful to others so that we can help live a complete life like Sorrow does.

One of the biggest issues today is the effects of intergenerational trauma in formerly oppressed communities.  Intergenerational trauma is the effect of a traumatic event in a people’s histories that negatively affect the next generations of people.  Another related idea that the book discusses is the idea of spiritual resistance and resilience.  Spiritual resistance is acts of refusal to be pushed over in the face of oppression or the effects of it such as intergenerational trauma and resilience is the capacity to do so.  Sherman Alexie’s novel, The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven, discusses the topic of intergenerational trauma, spiritual resistance, and resilience.  The book is a collection of short stories that take place on the Spokane Reservation in the modern day.  The book describes the daily life and struggles of several characters and how they cope with it.  Intergenerational trauma has an ensnaring cyclical nature that can be solved through acts of spiritual resistance.

The ensnaring nature of intergenerational trauma is symbolically exemplified in Alexie’s portrayal of his characters’ struggle with alcohol.   In the chapter, “A Train is an Order of Occurrence”, Alexie describes his character, Samuel Builds-the-Fire trying alcohol for the first time.  Alexie describes that “With each glass of beer, Samuel gained a few ounces of wisdom, courage.  But after a while, he began to understand too much about fear and failure, too.” [Alexie 134]  Through Samuel’s character, Alexie describes why Native American people are drawn to alcohol and the pain it creates.  Alexie  holds the two factors of alcohol in juxtaposition to explain its dual nature.  Because alcohol provides “wisdom” and “courage”, it numbs the pain of the effects of intergenerational trauma, but alcohol also makes people understand “fear and failure”, giving the user more pain.  This inherently creates an endlessly destructive cycle.  This is interestingly a symbol and manifestation of intergenerational trauma.   A common example of intergenerational trauma is that due to oppression parents are not able to help their children as much they should leading to the same thing happening with the grandchildren.  This is an endlessly negative cycle similar to alcohol.  Both alcohol and intergenerational trauma are painful ensnaring systems that have extremely negative effects on whole cultures.  But, they are intertwined because alcohol abuse is a manifestation of intergenerational trauma because it  is often caused by the negative effects intergenerational trauma because it is a coping mechanism.  In the same chapter,  Samuel describes his experience with alcohol earlier in his life.  Samuel explains that, ”All his life he had watched his brothers and sisters, most of his tribe, fall into alcoholism and surrendered dreams” [Alexie 133].  Samuel describes seeing his friends and families around him fall into the trap of alcoholism.  Alexie is able to translate Samuel’s feelings of helplessness to the reader with his depressing tone. Samuel has to helplessly watch all the people around him fall into the trap, which demonstrates how hopeless the situation seems.  Alexie describes that the people who fall into alcohol also fall into “surrendered dreams.”  By mentioning that, Alexie suggests that being in the cycle of alcohol causes people to give up on their hopes and aspirations.  Because of that, they will never break out of the cycle of intergenerational trauma.  That counteracts the idea of resilience.  A large form of resilience is is succeeding in contrast to an oppressive situation, but alcohol prevents that from happening.  Because alcohol prevents resilience, it cannot be used as spiritual resistance against intergenerational trauma.

Imagination and storytelling are forms of spiritual resistance against oppression  suggested by Alexie’s stories.  In Alexie’s chapter, “A Train is an Order of Occurrence”, a character named Samuel Builds-the-Fire describes why he has never had alcohol in his life.  Alexie describes that ”Samuel had always thought alcohol would corrupt his stories, render them useless, flat..he could tell funny stories that would make each day less painful.” [Alexie 134]  Samuel knows that alcohol will ruin his ability to tell stories and knows that stories can help people cope with their life.  Alexie uses a hopeful tone to describe Samuel’s situation.   Storytelling itself is a form of spiritual resistance.  Alexie describes that stories,”would make each day less painful.” The people on the reservation experience immense amounts of pain from the effects of intergenerational trauma and storytelling can distract people from the pain.  Once people focus on something the other pain, they can focus on their hopes and aspirations.  This itself is an act of spiritual resistance because people can go on succeeding instead of failing.  Alexie understands that storytelling can be a substitute for alcohol because they both can make days less painful.  Unlike alcohol, storytelling is a form of spiritual resistance while still being a pain killer.  In one very philosophical story, Imagining the Reservation, Alexie discusses different ways imagination is used on the Spokane Reservation as a coping mechanism against oppression.  Alexie describes that people on the reservation “Imagine an escape..Imagine a song stronger than penicillin...Imagine a spring with water that mends broken bones.” [Alexie 153]  Alexie is implying that by imagining positive ideas, a person can better cope with the oppression and hardships they face on the reservation.  Alexie uses rhythm to make his point by using a short phrase starting with “Imagine”.  By using rhythm Alexie describes that oppressed people can use their imagination as a powerful tool to overcome oppression.  The rhythm allows the reader to feel more hopeful by assuring them this could be a solution.  Centuries of oppression has caused Native American peoples to have to live harsh lives, but this strategy can help them overcome the hopelessness and despair.  By discussing how imagination can be a strong coping mechanism,  Alexie reveals that imagination is a form of spiritual resistance.

Imagination leads to resilience, which is a form of spiritual resistance against oppression.  In another short story, “Because My Father Always Said He Was the Only Indian Who Saw Jimi Hendrix Play “The Star-Spangled Banner” at Woodstock”, Alexie describes his father telling his son about struggles Native Americans face.  It’s been trying to kill Indians since the very beginning. Indians are pretty much born soldiers anyway. Don’t need a uniform to prove it.” [Alexie 29]  Through his character, Alexie explains that Native Americans have to be strong in order to survive the oppression they face.  Alexie uses a defiant tone to give life to his father character.   Children in oppressed communities often struggle to learn how to cope and live in the tough situation.  When a father tells their child that their people are tough and strong, that causes the children to try to take on those characteristics.  This is another form of imagination.  Imagining strength can help children better cope with the harsh conditions around them, which is resilience.  Children can use that resilience to overcome societal expectations on them to not succeed under oppression.  Because of that, giving children strength through hope is an act of spiritual resistance.   Imagination can lead to resilience making it a strong solution to the cycles of intergenerational trauma.  Being able to develop resilience and break cycles of intergenerational trauma is an extremely important quality, so researchers have done studies to figure out why some children develop resilience.  In a New Yorker article, Maria Konnikova cites a study that found why.  She describes that the children in the study, “Saw themselves as orchestrators of their own fate” and  “they believed that they, and not their circumstances, affected their achievements.”  [Konnikova]  The kids in the study use a form of imagination to get over the trauma they face.  Those kids are able to stop using their past as an excuse to stay in their situation, but instead ignore that and succeed.  Because imagination is a tactic that people use to overcome intergenerational trauma, it reveals that spiritual resistance is a way to solve the damage caused by intergenerational trauma.

Intergenerational trauma is an endlessly negative cycle that can be broken through imagination.  Intergenerational trauma prevents whole cultures from being successful because it is incredibly difficult to recover from years of oppression.  The pain from that intergenerational trauma causes people to turn to negative things such as alcohol which perpetuates the cycle.  But when people are able to get over the effects of oppression and the expectation to fail, they can break out of the cycle.  We have to find solutions, such as ones that implement imagination, to help people break out of this cycle because this cannot continue.

Running in the Dark

People praise F. Scott Fitzgerald’s novel The Great Gatsby for its accurate depiction and critique of the 1920s.  The novel takes place in two suburbs on Long Island and follows the character Jay Gatsby, a man born into a poor farming family until he runs away as a young boy and reinvents himself.  He uses illegal means to become very wealthy, but this wealth is not necessarily accompanied by happiness and at the end of the book, he gets shot and is killed.  The novel takes place after industrialization and WWI, both of which resulted in an economic boom and caused a paradigm shift in American culture.  This economic boom caused people to begin to relax their tight grip on their conservative traditions.  A main theme of the novel is the American Dream. The American Dream is if one works hard enough in America, regardless of class and social standing, they can succeed by making a better life for themselves.  While one aspect of this broad idea is working hard for money or success, its definition changes in the twenties to become more corrupted because it focused solely on building wealth rather than building a happy life.   While Gatsby has the motivation to accomplish his goals, the corruption of the 1920s, which ultimately destroys Gatsby, reveals Fitzgerald's critique that one’s drive for wealth should only be done with honesty.

Gatsby has the motivation to accompli
sh his goals through reinvention and self improvement.  Fitzgerald describes Gatsby’s life before he reinvents himself and describes the motivations behind this action, writing that ”the truth was that Jay Gatsby..sprang from his Platonic conception of himself. So he invented just the sort of Jay Gatsby that a seventeen year old boy would be likely to invent, and to his conception he was faithful to the end.” (104)  Fitzgerald describes what Gatsby modeled his reinvented character after, effectively using allusion to describe this transformation.  A “Platonic conception” is an idea that is free from anything else such as experiences and the material world. Gatsby’s “Platonic conception” is his new identity that he creates that ignores his upbringing and creates something pure and different, revealing an important aspect of Gatsby’s character. Gatsby has the motivation to imagine a better future for himself and the power to carry on with this dream to become successful. Gatsby is the embodiment of the American Dream because, despite his poor and unsuccessful past, he strives to create a rich and successful life for himself. Later in the book, after Gatsby dies, Fitzgerald writes about Gatsby’s father discovering Gatsby’s daily schedule and goals from when he was younger.  Some of Gatsby’s goals, self titled “General Resolves” included “Read one improving book or magazine per week” and “No more smoking or chewing.” (181-82) This reveals that when Gatsby was younger, he was a motivated man on a dedicated path for self progress. Fitzgerald uses show not tell to describe Gatsby’s work ethic and motivation for self improvement, and illustrate his literal daily commitment to the bettering of his character.   Because Gatsby has the motivation to turn himself into something better, he embodies the American Dream because he will improve himself until he succeeds. By effectively using show not tell, Fitzgerald is able to communicate his claim that Gatsby is a motivated man who was able to follow the American Dream.

But the attitudes of the twenties corrupts Gatsby’s way of achieving the American Dream and Gatsby uses dishonest techniques to achieve success.  Fitzgerald than describes a  scene where Gatsby introduces the narrator, Nick, to his mentor Meyer Wolfsheim.  Gatsby explains,“‘Meyer Wolfsheim? No, he’s a gambler.’ Gatsby hesitated, then added coolly: “He’s the man who fixed the World’s Series back in 1919.’” (78)  In this scene, Fitzgerald uses diction to portray the attitudes and emotions of characters.  Fitzgerald describes that Gatsby “coolly” describes one of  the dishonest things Wolfsheim has done. Gatsby only would say “coolly” because he believes that rigging the World Series is “cool” and because he is a close friend he is “cool.”  This reveals Gatsby’s feeling of admiration of Wolfsheim.   Since Wolfsheim is Gatsby’s mentor, Gatsby likely picked up many illegal schemes from Wolfsheim. Though Gatsby has the motivation and strives to do better, Wolfsheim influences Gatsby to use dishonest techniques to get rich.  Gatsby’s honest strive for success is corrupted as people like Wolfsheim and the attitude around him influence him to use easier, but illegal tactics.  Fitzgerald effectively portrays Gatsby’s corruption by using diction to portray subtle emotions and feelings in his characters.    Towards the end of the book, Tom, the main antagonist accuses Gatsby of bootlegging.   Tom says that “‘I found out what your ‘drug stores’ were. “ He turned to us and spoke rapidly. ‘He and this Wolfsheim bought up a lot of side-street drug stores here and in Chicago and sold grain alcohol over the counter.  That’s one of his little stunts. I picked him for a bootlegger the first time I saw him and I wasn’t far wrong.’” (141)  The historical context for this is the Prohibition in the United States.  Prohibition was the ban of the production and sale of alcoholic beverages from 1920 to 1933  to try to cure some problems in society caused by alcohol.  Instead of solving problems, Prohibition caused more because organized criminal gangs sold alcohol and were able to get stronger because the demand for alcohol was so strong.  Gatsby has involvement in the system of selling alcohol during the prohibition and illegally sold alcohol.  Instead of honestly working, Gatsby is steered by people like Wolfsheim and end up contributing to the problem of crime.  Gatsby would have gotten rich honestly because he has the work ethic, but Fitzgerald uses him as an example of the corruption of the American Dream.

With Gatsby’s failure to achieve success, such as not having good relationships with other people, Fitzgerald expresses his critique of the American dream.  After Gatsby dies, one person other than Gatsby’s dad and Nick show up to the funeral, a man named Owl Eyes.  Owl Eyes exclaims“‘Go on!’ He started. ‘Why, my God! They used to go there by the hundreds.’ He took off his glasses and wiped them again outside and in. ‘The poor son-of-a-bitch,’ he said.” (183)  When he was rich, Gatsby throws many parties with hundreds of people.  Now at his funeral, no one from his parties shows up. Fitzgerald uses tone to best reveal his intent.  Owl Eyes starts with amazement that so many people went to Gatsby’s parties, but turns to pity because no one from those parties showed up to Gatsby’s funeral.    Fitzgerald speaks through his character Owl Eyes and feels pity for Gatsby.  Gatsby succeeded in terms of the 1920s definition of the American Dream because he built all this wealth, but still failed because no one cared enough to his funeral.  By including this scene, Fitzgerald voices his opinion that the attitude of the 1920s prevented Gatsby from truly achieving an important part of the American Dream. The American Dream is building a better life and part of it includes building good relationships with one’s peers.  If Gatsby had focused more on building good relationships, more people would have showed up to the funeral because they cared.  Because the idea of the American Dream changed in the 1920s, Gatsby did not look to achieve it, proving Fitzgerald’s critique on the American Dream.  At the end of the book, the Nick describes Gatsby’s life.  He describes that  Gatsby “had come a long way to this blue lawn and his dream must have seemed so close that he could hardly fail to grasp it. He did not know that it was already behind him.” (189)  In this scene, Nick describes Gatsby’s life.  Fitzgerald writes that “he could hardly fail to grasp it.”  Fitzgerald uses symbolism to write this because he describes Gatsby’s goal as a physical object that one could reach out and grab.  Since his goal is tangible and real, Gatsby only focuses on that goal.  Gatsby starts his journey with hope and strives for this goal.  But he gets sidetracked by the allure of using illegal means to achieve his goal quicker.  Gatsby is so focused on achieving his goal of gaining wealth that he forgets what the true meaning of the American Dream is: to improve one’s life.  Gatsby forgets to do things such as building good relationships because he is so focused on wealth.  But his goal ends up behind them and he realizes that he has not achieved it, but only achieved what the attitudes of the 1920s told him to achieve, getting rich.  Because Gatsby’s drive for success is corrupted by the attitudes and morals of the 1920s, Fitzgerald critiques those attitudes saying that those attitudes do not make happy people and because of that, Fitzgerald had Gatsby pay those consequences.

Fitzgerald successfully critiques the corruption of the corruption of the American Dream in the 1920s.  In the start, Gatsby has drive and a strong will to improve and change himself until he can get success.  On his way to achieving success, he is steered away from honesty by people like Wolfsheim and the general attitude of the 1920s because it would help him achieve his goal quicker.  These have consequences and are revealed once Gatsby gets to the 1920s version of success and did not actually build anything meaningful.  To truly find success and happiness in one’s life, one must not cheat and build good relationships everywhere one goes instead of just solely focusing on wealth and ignoring everything else.
Breaking out of the Fortress of Solitude
The role that norms play in our everyday lives are mixed.  Junot Diaz’s The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao discusses ideas about norms in society.  Social norms dictate how people should act or behave to conform to society.  The novel is a coming to age novel featuring Oscar, a Dominican teenager who grows up in Paterson New Jersey.  Oscar is overweight and is into the sci-fi genre, so he is deemed unpopular by his peers.  He is the opposite of what people’s social norms are for Dominican men, strong and masculine, and struggles to find love.  Though social norms can help guide people to help outcasts conform to society, Diaz explains that social norms are harmful because they are oppressive by putting too much negative pressure on people and causing people to internalize racism.

Diaz explains that social norms encourage and guide people to help social outcasts be better accepted into society.  When Oscar is growing up, he is really into girls, but can not find a girlfriend and still is a virgin.  Oscar’s sister then tells him, “‘Oscar’, Lola warned repeatedly, ‘you're going to die a virgin unless you start changing.’” (25)  Diaz uses tone to describe how Lola talks to Oscar.  Lola “warned repeatedly” because she is concerned with Oscar and truly cares enough to mention it more than once.  One of Oscar’s greatest goals is to have sex with a girl.  Lola is concerned that Oscar cannot achieve that goal and knows that not achieving it upsets him.  Because Diaz uses tone to describe Lola, the reader can understand that Lola feels concerned for Oscar and wants to help him.  Lola knows that in order for Oscar to achieve his goal, he has to be socially accepted, so that girls who are familiar with existing social norms will better accept him.  Lola knows that Oscar has to change and helps him by telling him to change himself.  Social norms can have a positive effect because it helps people reach out to help outcasted people to achieve their goals.  When Oscar goes to college, he meets Junior, a young man who is the narrator of the book.  He becomes Oscar’s roomate and, like Lola, pushes Oscar to become a better person.  Yunior describes, “I had fatboy like Master Killer in Shaolin Temple. Was on his ass 24/7....Got him to start watching his diet and to stop talking crazy negative — I am ill fated..I am going to perish a virgin, I’m lacking in pulchritude..Positive thoughts, I stressed, positive thoughts, motherfucker!” (176)  Here, Yunior encourages Oscar to change his body image to better conform to what society thinks is acceptable.  Diaz uses diction to show Yunior’s colorful character by using casual language with swearing.  This allows the reader to see Yunior’s enthusiasm.  Yunior’s enthusiasm to help Oscar reveals the push to be socially accepted and the lengths that people will go to help people be socially accepted.  People in society instinctively push out and oppress people who do not fit in such as Oscar.  But by using social norms, Yunior can help Oscar fit in with his peers and possibly be happier.

Even though social norms help push people to help others improve, social norms oppress people by putting too much pressure on people to conform and further pushing people away from conforming.  In high school, Oscar is constantly bullied by his peers.  Yunior describes Oscar’s frustration writing, “For Oscar, high school was the equivalent of a medieval spectacle, like being put in the stocks and forced to endure the peltings and outrages of a mob by deranged half-wits.” (19)  Here, Diaz uses an analogy to describe how the kids make fun of Oscar.  In medieval times, people who did crimes or misbehaved were put into wooden constraints that trapped their head and hands, so they could not move and were on display.  The other people around them made fun of the person in the stocks and threw rotten fruit at them.  Diaz applies that to being in high school.  Oscar’s peers similarly make fun of Oscar.  His peers see him as a whimsical spectacle for their amusement.  Stocks, in medieval times, were a form of punishment meant to prevent people from doing crimes, so Oscar is facing a form of punishment, but it is just because of social norms.  Because Diaz uses an analogy, the reader understands that social norms harm people because those norms the pressure to conform makes people feel punished and outcasted. Another example of these norms hurting people is when Oscar’s sister, Lola, has friends at their house.  Those friends make fun of Oscar because he is a virgin and an outcast. Yunior describes that, “It wouldn’t have been so bad if these chickies hadn’t treated Oscar like some deaf-mute harem guard, ordering him around, having him run their errands, making fun of his games and his looks; to make shit even worse, they blithely went on about the particulars of their sex lives with no regard for him.” (27)  Lola’s friends treat him like less of a person.  Diaz uses a simile to compare Oscar’s treatment to that of deaf-mute harem guard.  Harem guards, or eunuchs, were servants of royalty in Asia.  They were usually castrated, so they would be more loyal servants.  That ,in turn, made them lose a large part of their sexuality because they could not have sex in a traditional manner and were seen as lesser people. Diaz compares these servants with Oscar.  Oscar has issues having sex because of social rather than physical reasons.  Because Lola’s friends treat Oscar like a eunuch, they cause him to internalize beliefs that he to is unable to have sex.  By having Lola’s friends mock Oscar, Diaz uses this to explain the symbolic wall people put around Oscar that prevents him from achieving his goal of having sex.  This further exiles Oscar away from being conformed in society.

Diaz also depicts how social norms cause internalized oppression because the social norms stem from racism caused by colonialism.  When Oscar was growing up, he found solace from the bullies through books and movies. Yunior describes that “[Oscar] read The Lord of the Rings for what I'm estimating the millionth time, one of his greatest loves and greatest comforts since he'd first discovered it, back when he was nine and lost and lonely and his favorite librarian had said, Here, try this, and with one suggestion changed his life. Got through almost the whole trilogy, but then the line ‘and out of Far Harad black men like halftrolls’ he had to stop, his head and heart hurting too much.”  Diaz alludes to the Lord of the Rings, one of Oscar’s favorite books.  Oscar trusts this book and Yunior describes that Oscar has read it millions of times and loves the books.  Diaz’s allusion fits Oscar’s character because Oscar loves things in this genre that includes the Lord of the Rings.  But these books have racist ideas and describe people with darker skin as monsters.  Because Diaz uses accurate allusion, he is able to convey to the reader the profound effect the racism has on Oscar because he is so close to those books.  This racism stems from colonialism which used interpersonal oppression as a tool to enslave and strip power from native people by dehumanizing them.  The effect lives on in literature and Oscar feels the oppression from the belief that since he has dark skin, he is less of a human.  By having this racism in a book that is accepted in society, these ideas become norms.  Because of these norms, people such as Oscar see themselves as lower than others.  Diaz reveals that social norms driven by racism are negative because they cause people to internalize false stereotypes that hurt people’s self esteem.  A couple years later, Oscar goes to college. He faces discrimination there and Oscar describes that “the white kids looked at his black skin and his afro and treated him with inhuman cheeriness. The kids of color, upon hearing him speak and seeing him move his body, shook their heads. You’re not Dominican. And he said, over and over again, But I am. Soy dominicano. Dominicano soy.” (49)  Oscar faces discrimination and marginalization by most of his peers.  At the end of the quote, what Oscar says translates to “I am Dominican. Dominican I am.”  Diaz writes that he says this “over and over again.”  Diaz uses repetition to explain how the discrimination by Oscar’s peers affects him.  Oscar’s peers reject Oscar because he does not fit in with what they think he should look or act like and strips his identity from him by saying he is not Dominican.  Oscar responds by repeating that he is Dominican to try to reclaim his identity.  By using repetition, Diaz better explains to the reader that social norms that people put on others is a form of oppression and are difficult to counteract.  Because of social norms, Oscar internalized the idea that he is not Dominican and struggles to reject it.  Diaz argues that social norms driven by racism hurt people because the norms cause internalized oppression which strips identities and cause people like Oscar be rejected by everyone.

Though social norms encourage people to help outcasts become more accepted, they are overwhelmingly negative.  These social norms put too much pressure on people to conform and often push them farther away from conforming because they are hurtful.  These social norms are often influenced by factors like racism and that does not help at all.  Social norms can be good to use as guidance and may be necessary to keep order, but the pressure needs to be kept in moderation.


Works Cited:

Diaz, Junot. The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.  New York: Riverhead Books, 2007. Print.

When the Merchant of Venice was written in the 1500s, Jews faced discrimination all over Europe.  The man who wrote it, Shakespeare, lived in England  where anti-semitism was prominent, and there were anti-semitic plays.  One of the characters, Shylock, is a Jew living in Venice and is considered the antagonist of the play.   In many books and films, the antagonist is portrayed as someone who is completely bad and deserves the justice that is given to them at the end.   Through different eras, Shylock has been played very differently, sometimes as a villain and sometimes as a sympathetic character. Even though Shylock is the antagonist of the play, he is complex and one feels pity for him.  Shakespeare uses Shylock to convey a message that Jews are human too to his audience.  Because Shakespeare shows that Shylock is like everyone else and has struggles, Shakespeare’s play is not anti-semitic like his contemporaries.

By humanizing Shylock, Shakespeare sends the message to his anti-semitic audience that Jews are like everyone else. Shylock loans the protagonist, Antonio, some money and agrees that if he can not pay the bond, Shylock could take a pound of Antonio’s flesh, killing him.  Antonio ends up not being able to pay the bond and when asked why he would want a pound of Antonio’s flesh, Shylock replies,
“I am a Jew. Hath not / a Jew eyes? Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions...If you prick us, do we not bleed?..And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?” 3.1.57-66
Shakespeare sends a powerful message by having Shylock say that he is human like everyone else.  At that time, the viewers of the play had never met or even seen a Jew because Jews were removed from England about 200 years before the play was written.  When someone has never met a person of another group, it is easy to dehumanize them.  Knowing another culture’s experiences and struggles by knowing someone is the only way to understand another group.  This play is powerful because the audiences sees the experience and struggles of a foreign group, and contrasting with the anti-semitic plays which supported negative stereotypes.  Shylock’s daughter, Jessica,  falls in love with a Christian, so she ran away with Shylock’s money and converted to Christianity.
“I never heard a passion so confused / So strange, outrageous, and so variable / As The dog Jew did utter in the streets / “My daughter, O my ducats, O my daughter! Fled with a Christian!” 2.8.12-16
Shylock is immensely sad that the two things in life he loves have been taken from him:  his daughter and his money.  When he discovers that those two things are gone, Shylock is distraught.  Shakespeare is showing his English audience that Jews have emotion.  If Shakespeare was to make Shylock a negatively stereotypical character, he would not have given Shylock such deep passion and emotion.

Shakespeare helped his audience understand the struggles of the Jewish people by showing the struggles of Shylock.  When it was discovered that it was illegal for Shylock to harm Antonio, the protagonists take all of Shylock’s money. One of Antonio’s friends, Gratiano, exclaims,
Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself!
And yet, thy wealth being forfeit to the state,
Thou hast not left the value of a cord;
Therefore thou must be hanged at the state’s
Charge.  4.1.379-383
Gratiano sees Shylock as worth not even the rope to hang himself.  Venetian Christians saw Jews as worthless.  Shakespeare shows the audience what it is like to be oppressed through the treatment of Jews from Christians.   Through the course of the book, the reader feels pity for Shylock because of his misfortunes.  In Venice, Jews were often mistreated.  Antonio frequently looks down on Shylock.  Shylock reflects on it later, “You call me misbeliever, cutthroat dog, / And spet upon my Jewish gaberdine.”  1.3.121-122   Shylock constantly faces prejudice in Venice.  Antonio saw Shylock so low, that he spat on him and called him a dog.  Antonio treated him less than human.  By showing what Jews had to go through everyday in Venice because of oppression, Shakespeare showed his English audience what it was like to be mistreated.  By showing how Jews struggle, Shakespeare can show the counter narrative of a Jewish person.  That opens up the eyes of his audience to understanding the other group.

Because Shakespeare’s audience did not personally know any Jews, it made Jews easily villainized.  Shakespeare makes Shylock, who represents Jews,  human enough for people to connect to him and feel his struggle.  In modern day, xenophobia is again widespread.  Like in Shakespeare’s day, people do not stop to consider that outsiders are people too.  That is why counter narratives, such as those in the Merchant of Venice, are important to share the experiences of an oppressed minority group.  Literature, plays, and movies can help us understand each other.  When we understand one another, we realize we are all humans.

Maxine Hong Kingston outlines the relationship between her and her mother, Brave Orchid, in her book, The Woman Warrior. Kingston talks about her experience growing up in a Chinese immigrant family in Fresno, California. Growing up, Kingston struggles with confidence while talking to people.  Her mother, Brave Orchid, also frequently tells her seemingly pointless and confusing stories and Kingston reflects on them in her book. Kingston has issues determining whether those stories are real or fake, so she has to question whether they help her with confidence or not. On the surface, Brave Orchid seems to neglect Kingston, making her lose confidence, but Brave Orchid uses the stories to encourage Kingston to be a confident woman which then positively influences her actions.
Brave Orchid seems to not care about Kingston by telling her stories that could be real or fake, but actually had a purpose behind it. When Kingston reflects on her mother, Kingston says by telling her stories, “She tested our strength to establish realities.”[5]  Brave Orchid used stories to teach Kingston to be confident about reality and mostly herself.  To be confident, one must be able to distinguish what is real and what is not and the stories develop that skill. When one knows that something is real they can progress forward with confidence.  At first when she heard the stories her mother told, she thought they held her back.  The stories were difficult to decide whether they were real or not, so they made her realize her inability to figure out reality.  Now, Kingston sees that the stories actually helped her out.   Brave Orchid uses stories to develop Kingston’s confidence instead of making her lose confidence.    By telling Kingston all those seemingly confusing stories, Brave Orchid is actually trying to make Kingston more confident in herself. When Kingston’s mother tells her a beautiful story about a powerful woman warrior in ancient China, she reflected, “When we Chinese girls listened to the adults talk-story, we learned that we failed if we grew up to be but wives or slaves. We could be heroines, swordswomen.” [19] Typically in Chinese culture, girls grew up to be “wives or slaves” and the story would help them have the motivation to become something more than that. The story is liberating and gave Kingston confidence that she could be better than a wife or a slave. It gave Kingston confidence and hope that she could be powerful and confident just like the woman in the story.  When Brave Orchid tells this story to Kingston, she is not only inspiring Kingston but also giving her confidence on being more than what people expect of her.  By telling Kingston stories, Brave Orchid isn’t weakening her confidence, but strengthening it.
Kingston then uses the skills she gains from the stories to try to be confident when confronting people. Kingston finds out that her company’s banquet is going to be held at a picketed restaurant.  When she asks her boss about it, he told her that he chose it because it was picketed. Kingston reacts, thinking, “If I took the sword, which my hate must surely have forged out of the air, and gutted him, I would put color and wrinkles into his shirt.” [49] Kingston uses the confidence she received from the story about the woman warrior to attempt to stand up to her boss about what she thinks is wrong.  Kingston used all the confidence she gained from her mother to push back.  Even though it wasn’t much, she still stabbed him with her sword of rage.  To have rebellious thoughts like that requires true confidence in what she stood for and a knowledge of who her enemies were.  She had the confidence to fight back and that show's development from who she was before.  Kingston tries her best and uses the the confidence gained from the stories her mother told her, even though it isn’t much. Kingston describes an experience she had when she was young, “When one of my parents or the ignorant villagers said, ‘Feeding girls is feeding cowbirds,’ I would thrash on the floor and scream so hard I couldn’t talk. I couldn’t stop.” [46] Kingston tries to rebel against the sexist villager by screaming, which is her way to push back against the villager, and sexism in general, though not effective.  The woman warrior in the story pushes back against people who are sexist and think women are weak.  Kingston also does that by showing everyone around her that she disagreed with that.  Like the story with her boss, Kingston was able to use the story to take a stand on what she believed and requires a high level of confidence.   The stories that her mother told her influence her to try to be strong and give her a sense of self-esteem that she couldn’t have gotten before.

When she was a child, Kingston thought the stories her mother told confused her because it showed Kingston’s inability to determine what is real. Later, Kingston realizes that  Brave Orchid’s stories empower her to be confident in what she stands for.  Kingston then translates that confidence into taking a strong stand and fighting what she believes in.

Gaming the System

Social change can happen in many ways such as a having social critique in a novel.  Upton Sinclair criticizes the oppression caused by capitalism in the 20th century and suggests replacing it through socialism in his book The Jungle.  The Jungle follows Jurgis, a man who went with his family who recently immigrated to Chicago from Lithuania in the early 20th century in search for a better life.  The family moves to a neighborhood in Chicago called Packingtown, a heavily industrialized place, which specializes in meatpacking.  Instead of finding a better life and being successful, the family finds misery and cannot succeed no matter how hard they work.  Jurgis then turns to crime to better survive, but finds socialism and everything is well.  In The Jungle, Sinclair also criticizes the driving idea of capitalism: Social Darwinism.  Social Darwinism is the idea that the people who work the hardest in the system should succeed.  Social Darwinism is loosely based on Darwin’s theory of evolution that the fittest being should succeed.  Although he failed to convey socialism as the solution to problems caused by capitalism, Sinclair is able to successfully express his intent of critiquing Social Darwinism to the reader through characters being pushed to failure by the system and the people that take advantage of the system.

Sinclair fails to convey socialism as the solution to oppression.  Sinclair was not effective of conveying his main goal of convincing people to replace capitalism with socialism because of  the way he structures the plot in The Jungle.  Sinclair critiques industrialization and capitalism for the first eighty five percent of the book without mentioning socialism or socialist ideas.  Sinclair structured his plot in a way where socialism is described in a small section at the end.  Readers skipped over Sinclair’s description of socialism because it was only a small portion of the book in the back.  Instead, readers focused on the negative effects on Sinclair’s critique of capitalism because they were written as a much more main and central idea.  Sinclair was not able to get his message of encouraging socialism to his readers because he structured his plot in an unbalanced way where it did not fully explain socialism as the solution to capitalism.  One of the main ideas people focused on was the quality of food.  As part of his critique of capitalism, Sinclair graphically described the morbidly disgusting ways the factories processed and made food at that time.  After the book was published, there was a strong public outcry.  President Roosevelt read The Jungle and pushed an investigation which led to the passing of two pieces of legislation by Congress: the Meat Inspection Act and the Pure Food and Drug Act in 1906; the same year The Jungle was published. The public outcry was so strong that legislation was immediately passed.  People were disgusted at the way their food was made and immediately sought for action.  Sinclair’s literature was incredibly effective at mobilizing people to action.  Because Sinclair’s language about food production was so shocking, the readers skipped his message about socialism as a solution.  Sinclair was not able to successfully convey his message of socialism as a solution to capitalism because he distracted the readers with critique.  Readers could pick up this immediately morbid and disturbing imagery much easier than socialism.  Even though The Jungle brought paradigm changes to the food and drug industry, Sinclair failed to convey his message of proving socialism as the solution to capitalism.  But Sinclair was able to make a very successful argument against capitalism.

Though Sinclair was not successful in conveying his message about socialism, he successfully critiqued Social Darwinism through his character’s struggles to succeed when the system constantly fights them.  When the family reaches Packingtown, they immediately get to work to try to achieve success.  Whenever the family runs to financial troubles, Jurgis proclaims “Leave it to me; leave it to me.  I will earn more money--I will work harder.” [17]  Jurgis has a very hardworking mentality.  When his family needs help, he tries even harder.  Jurgis’ motto of “I will work harder” lets the reader better understand the mentality that Jurgis has.  By stating Jurgis’ motto multiple times in the book, Sinclair uses repetition to drive his point home about Jurgis’ character trait.  The reader now understands that Jurgis genuinely works hard and tries his best to provide for his family.  This disproves Social Darwinism because Social Darwinism is the idea that working hard in the system will grant one success.  This is clearly not the case in The Jungle.  When Jurgis works hard in the system as a law abiding citizen, he does not find success.  Sinclair succeeds in his critique of Social Darwinism and capitalism as a whole because he reveals to the reader that Social Darwinism is a flawed philosophy.  The characters can not succeed by working harder because the system does not reward “legal” hard work like it should.  Later in the book, Jurgis finds a job to dig tunnels under the city, but does not knows the intent of the tunnels.  Sinclair then zooms out from the plot and reveals that the tunnels serve to transport goods from different factories under the intent of destroying the unions. The tunnels will give the factories a stronger grip on the unions because the factories now require less labor.  Sinclair uses the literary technique of zooming out.  Jurgis does not know this information, but by zooming out, Sinclair can make a better make his critique.  Zooming out creates a break from the plot and the reader can more easily understand what Sinclair’s critique is.  In most of the book, Sinclair’s critique is hidden in plot and are harder to pick up.  The reader can now understand that Jurgis works hard at something that will make his situation and other workers’ situation worse by destroying their protection against the factories.  The system is so powerful that it utilizes its own workers to enrich itself.  Jurgis thinks that he his succeeding, but he is in fact hurting his future and only succeeding at the moment.  This reveals Sinclair’s critique on Social Darwinism because Jurgis’ hard work leads straight to failure rather than success like it promises.  The system of capitalism discourages Jurgis and other workers from succeeding.

Sinclair critiques Social Darwinism by revealing that his characters also fail in the system because they are constantly pushed down by people who use the system of capitalism to their advantage.  When Jurgis and his family first come to America, they want to buy a house.  A real estate agent then tricks them into buying the house and eventually swindles them of all their money.  After the agent peer-pressures the family to buy the house, “they  felt that all was lost; they sat like prisoners summoned to hear the reading of their death warrant.  There was nothing more that they could do--they were trapped” [Sinclair 42]  Sinclair uses a simile to compare the family’s predicament to prisoners getting ready for death.  This reveals to the reader how forced the decision was made for them by the corrupt agent.  Because Sinclair used a simile, the reader can better understand the emotions of the family.  The family later falls into severe financial hardships because they cannot make the house payments.  The agent is rewarded by the capitalistic system because according to the system he is the most fit to survive.  Social Darwinism in capitalism rewards people who can generate money the quickest such as the agent who can trick families into buying houses that they cannot afford.  The idealistic idea behind this is that the people who work the hardest would be able to achieve the capitalist reward easiest, but Sinclair reveals that people who use immoral tactics get the capitalist reward even easier.  Sinclair reveals the underlying truth about capitalism and why it caused so many issues during industrialization. When Jurgis turns to crime, he meets Mike Scully, a political boss.  Sinclair zooms out and describes the side of Scully that Jurgis does not know.  Sinclair writes that “it was Scully who was to blame for the unpaved street in which Jurgis’s child had been drowned; it was Scully who had put into office the magistrate who had first sent Jurgis to jail; it was Scully who was principal stockholder in the company which had sold him the ramshackle tenement, and then robbed him of it.  But Jurgis knew none of these things” [Sinclair 219].  Jurgis’ family went through many hardships because of Mike Scully.  This is an example of dramatic irony.  Jurgis thinks that Scully is a great person, but in fact Scully was responsible for things such as the death of Jurgis’ firstborn child.  The irony lets the reader see more than Jurgis can and be able to get more involved with the plot.  Scully is rewarded by the capitalist system for implementing immoral tactics that are cost-effective such as the unpaved street.  Instead of working hard and succeeding, Scully makes himself “fitter” than the rest with unsafe practices that harm other people.  Scully games the system to gain power and wealth and people in the system such as Jurgis’ family suffer.  This proves Sinclair’s point about Social Darwinism.  Social Darwinism cannot work because even if one works hard, people who take advantage of the system will push one down.  The people that use immoral tactics can push other people down because of the rewards capitalism gives them.  Sinclair reveals that the capitalistic system is broken because it rewards immoral and unsafe practices over hard work.  That is one of the main reasons why capitalism caused so many issues during industrialization.
Sinclair failed to make a good argument about why socialism is the solution to capitalism, but succeeded in criticizing capitalism.  Sinclair criticizes capitalism by writing about how his characters fail because the system is inherently against them.  Capitalism does not reward people who follow its rules and work hard like Social Darwinism claims it should.  Instead, capitalism ends up rewarding people who use immoral and illegal tactics such as Mike Scully and the real estate agent.  Sinclair knows about capitalism’s issues and proposes socialism. But we as a society should look at the past and come up with new solutions.
