So as an example here, okay,

so let's say more time.

So the square root of one.

Yes.

So

you'll notice that the square to two x minus one, right, because I

let you represent your inner function, in this case, x minus one,

which is using x minus one is equal to the derivative with two legs two,

yes, yeah.

And then

if I divide both sides by two, and I get one half Do you is it it's a dx. Okay, so let's take a look at what we can replace. At this point,

we have this

route two x minus one, which by

substitute you

for two x minus one. And this is going to become this

word view. In terms of view, I can replace the DX here

with

one half Do you Ryan, since I've sold projects here.

But if you notice, there's one last portion here that we're not able to substitute yet, right,

we like you equal to x minus one. And what is x going to be equal to?

Well, if we go back to you,

equals two x minus one.

And we can solve this equation

for x,

right, so I'm going to

add one to both sides. And I'm going to get

you plus one is equal to

x.

And then I'm going to divide both sides by two. And I'm going to get x

equals you plus one. Number two.

Now, I can take that

and substitute this x, or you plus one or two. And now this is your goal will be completely in terms of you. Okay,

so if I make all of the substitutions, here's what this is going to look like. This can be the integral of

you plus

one over to write letters by c x equals

one words here,

we're placing this order to x minus one with the square root of you. And then we're replacing dx with

one half,

right. And if we put all that together,

and what we get to the one half on the outside here, actually, I have one half and another one half. So I'm

just going to combine those together and put one for us

on the outside. Okay,

so that takes care of both of these. And then the same time, I'm going to distribute the score to view with your plus one, which

squared abuse you to the one half. So usually, the one half times you come to us, and the

three halves

and then the score to do times one is just

the one. Okay,

all right.

And then the rest of you already know how to do right. And we just integrate this function. So this becomes one for

and then the integral of you to the three halves, I'm going to put this in brackets.

So at this point, because can

become due to the five paths

divided by five pounds, which the same thing as times to buy, okay, plus you to the one half plus one,

which will be using three house divided by three house, which is the same as multiplying by

two of the three.

And that's the evaluation of the angel. But remember, it

was constant.

Alright,

so what am I going to do from here? So

what I'm going to do, I'm going to

get a factor of two to

two. And I'm

also going to factor out the use of the three hubs. Okay, since they have that common, right, they both have us to make it back, right? So if I do that, yeah,

one more time to

you to the rehabs.

factor that out

too, to you to the five pounds, and that's going to become just using the two apps or just you multiply

plus and I factor out to

us and three apps from here. So that's going to leave just one that are okay, let's see.

Ok.

And then I probably want to common denominator. So

actually, before we do that

to import,

right, we can divide by two.

So that's going to turn that into one. And that's going to turn this into two. Okay, so yes, one half now.

So this is one half

times views and the three halves and then

get a common denominator between these two, we should

be 15

review. And I got to

talk about this one by five, it's going to be plus five

over another common denominator. Okay. Okay.

And there's less than your background that one

over 15. And that's going to combine with the one or two to make that one of the 30 so just

becomes one

over 30 times you to the rehabs times just three years, plus five

one. Okay.

All

right. So there's are integral in terms of you.

But we want to integral in terms of x.

And the last thing we can do is make the substitution back

for two x minus one for us. So this can become one

over 30 times two x minus 123 half

times three times two x minus one plus five

plus constant,

which if we combine like terms that are consuming three and combined like this one over

32

x minus one

half times

six x, right, and then

they get

three plus five positive to

say

one last thing we get back to

the one

we factor out to, that's going to become to over 30% plus one over 15. So this

becomes

one over 15 times two x minus 123 halves times three x plus one. Okay, what's

right, and this will be our answer

we got

just, I know, you can always check your answer,

just getting the derivative of it. So let's

check, we get the derivative of life, you get the same thing always as well, right, the y prime would be equal to 15. So we will advocate on the outside.

And then when I get the derivative, two x minus one is three times three x plus one,

I have to utilize the product tool. So derivative

of two x minus 123 half is going to be three halves

times two x minus one to the one half. And then by the chain rule, times the derivative of two x, which is two and then times

three x plus one, okay,

and then

plus the derivative of three

x plus one, which is three times

x minus one.

So

this to cancel out with this to over here,

and we can factor out three

from

inside the brackets here. So if I got a three, that's going to become three,

or 15, which becomes one over five

or five times,

and actually

I can background so x minus one to the one half. This last I forgot. So

let's try it again. So it's going to be one fifth, and then

the background to x minus one to the one half as well. And so what that's going to leave in the brackets here, so that respond that

two x minus one to the one episode three x plus one over here. And then

I factored out this the reason that three is gone. And so x minus one to the one half

from took myself to rehab is just going to be two plus two x minus one, okay,

which then becomes one

fifth times

two x minus one to one half times three x plus two x five x,

and then one minus 105

x their hands a lot of five and one fifth, and we're left with

x

two x minus one,

which if you notice, this is exactly what we started with. Right? We just took the integral of x sentence for two x minus one. Okay,

any questions? Okay,

so Justin, yeah, right, when you do substitution. So just to reveal what we do

when you make a substitution, sometimes not everything is going to be able to be substituted in terms of you. So there's something left over that hasn't been substituted like x, or maybe an x squared. And what you want to do is take your substitution and solve it for

x or

whatever you saw the court so that you can make that substitution in terms of you. Okay,

so that's like just a little extra thing that you might have to do when integrated substitution

I think that's all we have time for.

So you should be able to

do now class or point two and over to you. Okay.

Like it just universe in general here by embrace,

where the perspective tax

on getting the indefinite integral x squared with respect to x and

that is going to be x cubed over three plus a constant right

and let's call this capital F of X

and we can check if that's the correct

integral here. But I gave you the derivative of capital index, right,

so we can check

real quick by taking up

Brian x. And that is going to be equal to the derivative of execute for the three which is going to be

three x squared over three

plus the constant the derivative of a constant

zero and three divided by three gives us x square which is the original function that we originally right.

Okay so that being said, let's say we have something a little more complicated.

Let's see we have to integrate

x squared plus one squared times two

x.

Well

one way that you can get this at home, it's definitely by

just multiply now export calls running

right squared, swearing that out

and then distributing the two excellent integrating all of the individual

pieces of the phone number there, right that's one way you can do for you can

think back in the well maybe.

So f of x has to be something that

is going to be become export this

one. So I need a function such that when I get the derivative of it, I'm going

to get x squared plus one squared times two x. Well, maybe I'll get that to x.

If I

if I take the derivative of something like

x squared plus one to some

power, okay,

and maybe that power is going to be x squared

plus one to the third. Because when they take the derivative of that, that's going to bring the three out and that's going to reduce the exponent by one,

right. And I'm going to get the two x by

right by the chain rule when I get the derivative.

But the last thing that doesn't account for is that this is

going to become two times x

squared plus one, or three times x squared plus one squared. So to come to that,

I need to make this over three.

What's the constant

so maybe that's the root of x squared plus one squared,

maybe

let's check

if this really is the anti derivative of this function,

then I should be able to drive it and get x squared plus one squared times

X

PRIZE price of x is equal to

the derivative of x squared

plus one to the third,

which is going to be three times x squared plus one squared,

and then by the chain rule,

times two x and then over three

constant and then the derivative

see this going to be zero,

okay,

and they're just waiting for reply by three cancels out. And we're left with

x squared

plus one squared

times to x

which is exactly the function that we have a diverse

Alright, so instead of going through that whole complex process, right to break down the process that we just went to figure

out that this was the anti derivative,

right without having to multiply x squared plus one squared

and then distributed into two we're going to talk

about

what we call integration by substitution. Okay, so here's how it works

if I have the integral

of g

of x

okay some composition of functions

have with g of x times the derivative of g of x with respect to x

and that

is always going to be equal to capital f of g of x

plus c

okay

we're capital F

capital

FB f

being the function whose derivative

is lowercase f of x

okay

or

you can make a substitution here

if

we let you equal g of x

and then D you the derivative of new with the equal to achieve prime

of x with respect to x

then we can rewrite

f g of x as

lowercase F

of you and we could replace g of x dx with the D you

and that would be equal to uppercase

view

plus c

this is what we call

integration by substitution

which says which basically what it says is if I can

find

that the function and trying to integrate

is actually a composition of two functions and then the derivative of the inner function is also present in the integral that we're trying to

in the integral that we're trying to integrate

then the answer is going to be just the anti derivative of f of x with God exploitive,

okay, composed with us. So let's take a look at

exactly what that looks like.

So we're going to do a redo

of example one,

this time, we're going to actually break down what exactly that we did when we integrated x squared, one squared times two

x.

Okay,

so we're gonna make a couple substitutions here.

Notice that I have x squared plus one squared, which is possibly an inner function x squared plus one

composed with an outer function,

you swear. So we're gonna let us

equals x squared plus one,

then

if that's the case, then D, you the derivative of you, is going to the derivative of x squared plus one, which is two

x with respect to x is equal to x

dx.

Notice

that I have a two x dx

here. So I can replace that with you. And I have an x squared plus

one,

which I could replace with you.

So this integral in terms of view can be rewritten as the integral of view squared,

do you

Yeah.

And then

from here, just integrate with respect. So this is the integral of view squared with respect to you, which using the power

is going

to be used third you to the third over three

plus a constant.

And if you replace you

back in terms of x,

then we

get x squared plus one cubed over three. What's the constant?

So there we go, right? So this is a capital F of X

view, rather, YouTube over three plus a constant with g of x review, x

squared plus 123. Okay. And that is called integration by substitution. Any questions?

Let's try that

we're trying to

integrate x squared

times x cubed plus one

squared

x

squared times x cubed plus once, whereas,

okay,

so I'm going to notice here that x cubed plus one, right,

excellent, x equals y

squared is a function right inside the function, the function

x cubed plus one that is inside of the function

something b squared.

So we're going to let you

be our inner function

of this, which is x cubed plus one.

And if that's the case, then

D, you are the derivative of you, is going to be equal to the derivative of x cubed plus one, which is

three x squared with respect to x,

I want you to notice something real quick here.

So we have our x cubed plus one which will be able to replace with you, but do we have a three x squared dx here

now,

right, we only have X squared and

dx, we don't really have that three. So here's what we're gonna do. We're going to turn

this solve this for x squared dx by dividing both sides by three. And now we're going to have one third d'you is equal to x squared

dx, I was I got it by just dividing both sides by three.

So now I can replace x dx, this x or x squared dx can be replaced with one

or two you.

So finding those substitutions. And here's what this integral is going to look like. Now,

it is going to be used squared,

actually, it's going to be a

writer is going to be used squared times one third to you, which if we put that all together, that is one third u squared, do you

and then we integrate this function with respect to you. So the integral of us squared will be

well, first off one third, right as consciously can

leave that out times the integral of us

square which using the power wall that's going to be new to the third over three and then plus a constant

and then

multiplying these together I get one

nine times you cube at this point, I'm going to replace

you back with x equals one so it's going to be one nine times x plus one

policy

and I forgot one thing right?

So let's call this capital F of X, right? This is our

our anti derivative you

can always check your answer if you're not sure if you got the correct answer

this is our answer

you can always check it by just get into the rhythm of it right

so let's check our answers for x

by getting f prime of x

and x is going to be equal to one nine times the derivative of x equals one to the church which is going to become three times

x plus one

squared

and then by the chain rule, the derivative of x cubed plus one is going to be three x squared

three times three is nine times one night that starts

to become one so these all disappear so leaving us with

x squared times x cubed plus one

squared

is x which

is the function that we've integrated in the first place

confirming that we have the correct one side to root of x squared times x plus one squared

All right,

so you might be thinking at this point

okay well what's the point of the chain rule if I can just multiply our next equals one squared and then you distribute the

x squared right you know we can just do that

and why do we need the table well and the chain rule applies

to more than just automobile functions for example

let's say we want it integrates

signed squared

of three x

times code

alright so

this function

I would notice that science word three x is a function

right within another function right this is sign up three x inside of the function of something is being squared

so we're going to let you the inner function

is a sign of three x

and if you're able to sign up for x

is equal to the derivative of sign of three x which is cosine of three x and by

the chain rule times the derivative of three x

which is three

three co sign for accept if you notice I don't really have that three in here right I just have

cosine three x

dx I'm going to divide both sides by three

again and I'm going

to get 130 you is equal to co sign of three x x

ok so now this cosine of three x

dx can be replaced with 130 view and sine

square to three x is going to turn into you sweat

no substitution so we

now have the integral of us square

with respect to you

which we know how to do

right

it's a lot easier than anybody in the science world in fact you can really do that without

so integral of blue square

become new cubed over 3000

now that's left is just just to replace

you in terms of

x

one third one third you score Do you

think it's a good one so this is going to be one there are times you

cubed over three plus costs and so that's going to become one nine times side of

three x cubed

plus the constant

This will be our

call this capital F of x

integral

lowercase at the max and now let's check that the derivative of this lowercase okay

so

this is our

capital F of x is equal to

so it's going to be one nine times

the derivative of signing for x cubed which is going to be three times side three x squared

and then by the chain rule

the derivative of sight of three x

is going

to be cosine of three x

and then by the one more time the derivative of three

x

is going to be three

times three is nine which cancels out with one night it's a left with

squared of three x times cosine

noticed that is exactly

equal to the function

that we will be great.

Any questions?

Okay. I want you to work on every weekend.


Episode of the calculus alone

and then lastly

there's going to be something called the second fundamental

going to play as it removes and rivers and kind

of relationship between integrals enjoy.

Alright so let's talk about the

first main value that

mean value there

girls

let's just write down what it is

reporting the real estate is

continuous

production right this is there four points

in the textbook

so if f is continuous

on

the

clothes interval

from a to

b

and

then

there exists

a number

see

that is within me and

such that's

true

definite integral from a to b

f of x

x

times.

So as long as the function f is continuous

want to

close enroll, then we can guarantee that there's some number see between the end that's

definite integral from a to b

is equal

to FFC time to like to be in a role.

So understand exactly what we're talking about here. Let's draw

let's say this is a

function

A, A,

B, okay,

so if we integrate from A to B, right, if we integrate the extra

add, then what we're

finding is the area under the curve

right under the curve of aspects and above

the x axis, right

between

what the fundamentals of calculus is saying is that these values, what do you see different Twitter? What's happening?

There is a value seek

for sales, maybe about

here

between

this is See,

this is epilepsy,

then the area under the curve

is equal to

FFC

signs

the lines

area this rectangle

right here.

So what we're saying is that the area under the curve

like so the area of this rectangle, by the

way, if

you know this is equal to FMC

times b minus, right, right, right. And what

we're saying is that the area of this rectangle here,

we've chosen the right seat

here, is equal to

the integral the definite integral of f of x with respect to x between

the end which is basically the area under this curve between and

that's what we're saying,

as long as function is continuous, we can guarantee that there is at least one value see such that

this rectangle is going to equal to the area exactly

the value down.

So that being said, function is continuous, we can find we can guarantee that there is as Lisa value of See, and we can find that we see.

So we're still an example where we're going to find

let's call this example one here

we're going to do is find

value or possibly values

See,

guaranteed

by

main value there,

the following function

f of x

equals nine over x cubed

over the interval

from one to three.

So first off,

so we're gonna find it, obviously, that's guaranteed by many different

roles, okay, for value

function, nine over x cubed over

the interval from 123. Okay,

so the

first thing that we need to do whenever we're playing in the valley there right now, there's for any goals are for new derivatives is to make sure that the hypothesis is true. And hypothesis that we need to make sure that it's clear

is that if this continues over the

Okay, so let's take

a look at every night of rescue. Is that

going to be continuous over the interval from one to three? Yes, right. It has the discontinuity at x equals zero, but that's not within the animal from one to three. So the meantime replies, or this function over the interval up, I want to do it

again, from the first day that FX

FX is continuous

over the interval from

Ok,

so now we can go ahead and buy the main value there. And four states that if we get

the

definite integral from one to three,

nine over x cubed

x,

then that should be equal to see, right, some of them see times b minus eight. So FC would be nine overseas cubes, times b minus a, which in this case, is three

minus one.

So this is the

area right some rectangles

equal to the value of this room. Okay.

Alright, so next thing we're going to do is evaluate the seven year old here. So this is technically nine x to the negative three x three self, evaluate the integral, that is going to be nine x to the negative to over negative two. Okay,

so that is going to be negative nine over to

the negative to

evaluate evaluated as one in three.

And on the other side, I'm going to just go ahead and simplify

this year, three minus one is two times 918, 18

over some

on the white side, okay,

all right, let's evaluate this function here.

So if we evaluate at

three, three to the negative two is going to be one over nine.

And then that's going to cancel out with this night here.

So we're going to be left with negative one half.

And if

we plug in one once the negative two is just one times negative two times negative number two

is going to be negative nine

plus or

minus negative nine over to

still equals

cubed.

And I must take care of this. So this is going to be

negative one half

plus nine house. So

negative one half plus I have eight pounds, and we have divided by

four

equals three to oversee. Cute.

Alright, so now we got to solve for CS. I'm just gonna multiply both sides by ice cubes and get four CPU equals at and I'm going to divide both sides by four. And we get

this one. Yeah, so

we divide both sides by for we're going to get

CQ equals at over four

or nine number two

equals

this point, take the keeper both sides. And vitamin C

is equal to the cube root of nine over two.

Or

since

we want to make sure that it's within the interval here

they give an animal we get the keyboard and mouse over to which turned out to be about 1.65. Okay, please notice the animal from 123. Okay,

so C equals 1.65 would be the guaranteed

value such that if we get to the area of a rectangle, right,

with two and high

that should be equal

to the value of this

to the value of this definitely

right the area under the curve between wanting to design a rescue. Okay,

so basically, right.

So 1.6 slides with you the height of this rectangle

here, okay, the okay with the three in one in this case, and then this would be the perfect excuse. He said, Okay,

all right.

Questions? not

guaranteed,

as long as the function is continuous, okay, doesn't have to be differentiable, it just has to be okay. All right.

So now that we have that,

let's talk about now

the average value

of a function

can be a very valuable calculation, right? If I have a velocity function, and I want to know what was the average velocity on the trip, okay. Or if I have a function that

tells me how much spending is happening.

And I want to know what's the average amount of spending that was happening over a certain amount of time, we also very valuable calculation.

So here's how we calculate the average value

of the function

it

is integral

as it has

it has a integral

on the

clothes in a role for me to be

then

the average value

soundbite

average value

of x

is equal to

one overview minus

a

integral from a to b,

f of x.

Now, do you know something similar here between this and number one,

take a look back at number one real quick

guarantee value. See, such that

x is equal to two times

b minus I divide both sides by b minus a

are basically solved discrepancy and get FC is equal to one over b minus eight times the integral from a to b about the guys with respect to x. So

this Have a seat that we find

is actually the average value of the function. Okay,

that's number one. Okay.

All right. So that being said,

let's find the average

equals three x squared

minus two x

pulling the interval

from one.

So if I want to find

the average value, the average value that this function takes over the interval from one support,

then

we're going to find that

the average value

is

equal to one over the minus eight, which is four minus one

times the integral from a to b

143 x squared

minus

two x with respect to x.

And then

the rest is just calculating

right, so it's

going to equal to one third

one performance one is one right time. And we're going to integrate three x squared minus two x over the integral of three x squared is going to be three x cubed over three, we divide by three is going to become one,

so we're just gonna get

skewed

in a row of negative two x is going to be negative two x squared, or two to five by two is going to become negative one. So not just minus x squared, okay,

that is going to be evaluated

one and forth by using the fundamental calculus.

So then you

get

one third times, and then these brackets at this

point. So dysfunction evaluated at

four, that's going to be for cubed minus four squared support to us is

4064, or swear to 16. So there's gonna be 64 minus 16

minus the same function

evaluated at 111 cubes.

One minus one squared is also one,

which is zero, right?

So we have to do 61, third time 64 minus

1664 minus 16 is 48, 130

times 48,

and 130 and 48 is 42, or three, which is 16. Okay?

That would be the average value that assumption hates

that assumption. Next, right over the

interval.

And it was also happens to be if we weren't using the main value therefore, integrals and found that value see, that was guaranteed, we would find that this would be the height of that

rectangle, right?

This would be

such that

area of this rectangle people to the area.

Wait, what

does that 16 number like, mean? Mike,

this is the average value that this function so this function takes a bunch of different values between one and four

one, this is equal to one at for this is equal to what is that

16 times three is 48 plus

this equals this on the

right is equal to 48 hours of all of the values that it takes

the average value that it takes over one to four. Okay,

all right. Yeah, if this was our speed function, right? If this was speed, this would

have been our average speed assistance from one to four. Okay, yeah, it's cool

that it 16 is equal to FTC through

before, can you use the two interchangeably? Or is there

right? So what you're finding here? So what do you find in the evaluator

just to be clear, right? We sold per seat, right?

It's all proceed

but if you find just FFC

if you find what just this is equal to nine oversee cues in this, right, in this

particular example, if you divided both sides by two, then that would have just given you buy that would have given you the average value of the function, right.

So in some cases you solve received by providing

the

value of seeing them to buy their refined and see in the case of the average value function you're buying from see, okay,

all right. So

Other questions?

Alright, cool.

So

so these are three inputs, talk about what the second fundamental,

alright, so in order to understand the second fundamental calculus, we have to start thinking about the penumbral as a function, rather than the definite integral as function rather than have

enough.

So to understand the difference between two,

let's take a look,

if I'm talking about the definite integral as a number of

definite

integral

as a number,

then this is what we're used to

experiencing the definite integral as

right, we take the integral from a to b of some function f of x

with respect to x,

and we get some number, right, so we get a number.

But now I want you to start thinking about the definite

integral

instead as a function, okay,

we had the function, let's call it capital Fx

is equal to

the definite integral

from A x

of f

t with respect to t. Okay,

I'm only making this tea with respect to t, because we already have an

x over here

are variables confused,

Alright, so let's

kind of wrap her head about

run the difference between, okay,

in this case, here, we specified

like a lower down in an upper bound to evaluate the integral of f of x, okay,

in this case, here, we make a function where while we freeze the lower, we make the lower bound a constant, but we're making the upper bound have a definite integral a variable, okay, so depending on what I plug in for x is going to change the upper bounds that I evaluate this definite integral over okay

so for example,

an example will help us understand what I want you to imagine we have we come from all this capital F of x

is equal to the integral from

zero to x. So this is our pics, lower balance is going to be our variable,

other bands of cosine of tea with respect the team.

So given that

parts

here, let's evaluate

f of zero, okay,

well, if I'm plugging in 04 x,

then that is going to be the upper bounds

of this integral.

So this is going to become episode zero is the integral from zero

to zero

of CO sign up to you with respect to t.

And as we know, when the lower bound is the same as the upper bound for a definite

integral, that's just going to be zero, okay,

because you're finding the area under the curve of an infinitely thin interval, which there's not going to be an area if there's no with

try that again.

But now let's say we asked you to evaluate f

i over six. Okay,

so if I'm evaluating EPA five or six and that is going to become

the upper bound of this integral. So

this is going to become the integral from

zero to two pi over six

post IFTTT

which to evaluate that I'm going to evaluate right

cosine t which is negative sign

positivity

positivity and I'm going to evaluate that from zero to five or six

okay

aside of five or six is one half

minus sign of zero is zero

so we get one half minus zero or one half

So f

of five or six is equal to one because that is the value

of this definite integral when we make the upper bound five or six

times

more times here if we do

have a pi over for

then the upper

bound mouth of the Lord is the concept was possibly

zero

and now we're making the outbound pie before

of cosine of tea tea

which again

we're going to integrate cosine of tea which is going to the side of tea

and now

evaluated from zero to five or four

okay inside a pie before

is rude to over to my side of zero

zeros and get routed over to minus zero

or group to over two and this would be the value of f applies

continuing the same example here

of

Overseers

FBI over to you would be the integral from zero to two pi over to

co sign of T T, co sign of tea with

like to see is going to the side

of tea, we're going to be

evaluating that

from zero to apply

to sign up fiber to one side, and 00 to one minus zero equals one. Okay.

Alright,

so you get the idea, right. So we're just basically plugging in

whatever will plug it into capital F of x is going

to be determining the upper bound

this definite integral.

OK, so now function

that is based on the definite integral. Okay,

so

let's figure out what is f of x

with respect to x

x is equal to the definitely role for x and cosine and sine of t

t

by integrate cosine of tea and again, side of tea and evaluate that from a to x.

So that is going to be

sine of x minus side of a

capital F

of x in terms

of x, x

minus sign of a word is a constant.

So what happens when I guess the derivative of f

of x

is equal to the derivative with respect to x

upside of x minus sign of a

derivative with respect to x have side effects

is cosine x.

And the derivative of sign of a, which is a constant

is going to be zero.

So we get capital F

is equal to co sign, Max

Max

integral

definitely role from a

duty

This brings

us to the second fundamental calculus, okay, we're states the ball

is continuing

on an open interval

containing

some constant,

then

every x

in the

following

will be true,

the derivative

with respect to x,

x

with respect to t

equal to,

what do you think

Max, we have f of x equals

x and cosine, we took

the derivative of it, and we got

to sign.

So if

we generalize that, if I have a definite integral from

right, which is something that is changing based on

depending on the X, and I take the derivative event with respect to x, let me think we got

the original function with respect to x,

say this

is the second one.

And this establishes an important relationship between the derivative

of

the second

capitals,

because we take the derivative with respect to x

magic.

Yeah, that's basically

what we ended up we ended up with, so it's going to be in terms of x.

Alright,

so there we go. So using that relationship, okay, if I get the derivative of a definite integral came from some constants, x of the function with respect to any other variable,

what I'm going to get it.

So using that probably,

let's evaluate some derivatives here.

Suppose I want the derivative with respect

to x of

the

definite integral from negative ones in x,

the square root of t squared minus one with respect to t.

Why do we get

this is f t

t t t squared minus one.

So what we get

this is the same function with respect to x

squared of x squared minus one

more time.

Let's say we have

the derivative with respect to x, the integral from eight to x,

x cubed.

Oops, I'm sorry. Let's try that again.

t cubed

minus t squared plus one with respect to t

minus c squared

plus one.

What is this? Okay,

um, let's see one more,

this one's gonna be a little more complicated.

Let's say we have the derivative with respect to x of the integral from pi over to to execute

cosine of TT.

So

that's not x. But now it's the integral

integral from fiber to to execute a cosigner teaching,

this one's gonna be a little more complicated, let's write this down a little bit. So we're going to call the capital and backs

this function here. Okay, inside

integral from pi over to

execute

cosine.

And then we're gonna make a little substitution here,

we're gonna let you

equal execute.

And if you're able to extract x

three x squared,

so if I make that somehow equals

definitely role for fiber to to, now you have cosine of TT. Okay,

so

by the chain rule, if I want the derivative

of capital F with respect

to x,

and that is going to be the derivative of capital F with respect

to you, times the derivative of you with respect to x, right?

So what is the derivative of f with respect to you?

Well, that's going to be the derivative of this right here, which is going to be co sign of you.

And then what is you prime of x

squared.

Now, if you make a substitution back for you, in terms of x, and what we get is three x squared times cosine. Execute. And this

Alright,

so if the upper bound is something other than x,

x squared, or cube or two

X, even, you have to utilize

the chain rule to be able to evaluate them, okay, because you're gonna have to make a substitution, you're going to

get the derivative, right, you're gonna have to

make a substitution in terms of you rise, and now you have just

like five or two to some during the trial or to

some variable

and now you know, the derivative of that is going

to be easy.

The derivative of this would affect you is just focus on the view, but then you got to utilize the table

and make sure you get rid of

you with respect to Okay.

All right. Any

questions?

All right,

more content and more

value for

integral

like the average value function and you can now apply the

second fundamental


Yeah and then you realize yeah

just to

bring everything down

we have one third finding two plus three

is

a negative here that's going to be a minus negative one

plus

one third minus two minus negative three

plus three and then bring all of these towns plus 64 over three minus

plus 12 mind everything that has denominator group

together so that's one third two

thirds of the four

thirds is going to be 6630 and then the whole numbers of negative two plus three one minus two is negative one plus three

plus three is positive to

minus eight is negative six and then plus 12 is

going to be

okay value for

this option right that's going to be

it should be nice to

make this a negative 31

to

30 negative 30 plus forms

there

and then 6265 by three becomes 2222 months 18 and our final answer

alright so that's what we should get for number 26 yes

for number 28

one minus sign squared

by the

dagger and identity

for data

or some sort of data divided by one the integral from zero to apply

for this one

right or just the data which gives us data

evaluated from

zero to five reporters evaluate a pie before it's going to be hiring for evaluating zero is going to be zero so final answer

okay and then lastly

number 32

evaluating from a pirate pirate to the integral of to t plus cosine t integral of to team is going to be to t squared pursue or just t squared integral of cosine team is going to be positive Simon T.

Evaluate that for me to fly over to

type or two, so a time or two that's going to be pi squared over four plus sign of pi over to or

minus negative five or two squared

is still going to be pi squared over four

plus sign negative pirates here.

Alright, so

this becomes pi squared over four and sign of fiber to the positive one.

And then we're going to get minus five

squared over four and a

minus sign and a pirate to sign it. Negative five or two is

negative one. So minus negative one, that's going to be positive. One last word before minus pi squared report cancels out and we're left with one plus one

equals two.

Okay? So it's only three. No time for notes. So let's go into this point. It's your newsletter time and one post classwork and the homework property hacking.


Five or three times three. Okay,

we can do that. So

this is going to be four times we can have higher three,

which cosigner five or three is one so one over one half

so you're gonna find the three

minus

four times so you can have negative pirate three and so you

can have negative five or three is going to be the same thing so you can apply with the right assignments in the fourth quadrant we should focus on TV important part of the mechanism the first one

so this will be four times

four times three months four times here

which is eight minus eight which is zero. Okay

so that tells you that this is an odd function, right we immigrated to function from Vegas it's a zero

functions. All right,

so there's got

less so take a look at the homework out

numbers

negative x minus x squared

over

to start off by rewriting this interval if you

were to Max's x to the one

negative a negative one.

So x

divided by x to the one third x to the two thirds

over to.

And then I'm going to divide negative x squared

like superbikes as well. So the

same thing

minus

this is x to the 630 minus x to the one third. So that's going to become

530. And then also over to

good.

And now

we integrate. So

this is going to become,

this is going to become excellent five thirds

times 350. So three fifths times one half is going to be three to 10

times

this one is going to become x to the

eighth.

And three

times negative one half is going to be

negative three over 16 times X 30. Okay,

evaluated

negative a

negative one.

So let's evaluate this negative one,

negative one to the five thirds as we pointed out, right, it's going to be an odd power of negative one.

So that's going to become negative

times three times. So that's going to be negative three tenants.

And then

negative ones that the eight that's going to become positive one, because that's going to be negative ones that have a power and they go one, two to the power to the other one,

the positive one times negative 316. Okay,

so here's the function, right value. But in a negative one. Now we need to evaluate it at negative, okay,

so as negative eight, so negatively to the five thirds is going to be the cube root of negative states to the fifth power.

OK, so the cube root of negative it is negative to negative two to the fifth power is negative 32

times three.

And that's going to become negative 96. Okay,

maybe it is

going to become negative to get rid of database to and then that's going to become negative two to the HR is a pretty large enough. So here's what I'm going to do except for this one.

So this is going to be

negative two

minus three times negative two to the fourth

times negative to the issue,

right? Because

that's technically negative to to be

over 16.

And why do I do that?

Because what is native to the fourth,

what's negative two to the power of

negative two times

that's right. So can can flow with that, okay,

so we get

negative three over

over 62, that's gonna become

was the I was six over 10.

And then this is going to become minus negative three times negative to the point is

positive. 16 times negative three is negative 40.

So

minus negative four plus

four years. Okay,

I'm going to combine these two together. And that's going to become 93%.

So that's going to be 93 over 10 minus three over 16 plus 48, the whole number,

OK. And now, if I

want my answer expresses a fraction,

I want a common denominator between these three and the least common

denominator between 1016 and one is at, okay, so we got to multiply 93 over 10 times eight over eight.

And that gives us 744 over at

negative there were 16, I got a multiply the top and bottom by five. And that's going to

become minus 15 over 80 and 48 over one, I got to multiply the top and bottom by at, okay, at times 48.

Well, that's going to be

what, 4000 minus 160,

right. So that's 3840.

And we're

now just add all those together,

744 minus 15 plus 3800, 44,569

over at

this

point, you should about

this, the questions

start taking

a look at number four, which I already gave you a hint about,

right.

So we kind of started this

already on Thursday.

So if I have three minus the

absolute value of x minus three, that can be split up into a peaceful a function, that is three minus x minus three,

x is greater than or equal to three. And that is three minus the opposite of x minus 30, or 11 weeks. Three plus x minus three,

x

is less than one, x is less than three. Okay,

so since the function is different, what is

greater than three in one, lesson three, we know that the integral into two

separate intervals, right one going from one to three, because these are values 111 x is less

than three.

And then one end goals or something before because these are guys like Texas, rather than or equal to, can never get to integrate these functions, respectively,

and add them together.

So I'm going to simplify it. So continuing where we left off here, three, plus x minus three, the three,

the negative three

can cancel out, so leaving you with just the integral from one to three

of x with respect to x, okay,

simplify this function over here,

the integral from three to four,

three minus negative three is going to be positive six, and then that's minus x.

OK,

so

anyway, great, that's a great x with respect to

x. And that's going to be x squared over to evaluating from one to

three.

And

then every six months

actually,

and this is going to be six x minus x squared over to evaluated at three.

Alright,

so let's start with this integral over here.

So we're, we're just evaluating this at this

point, right? We already calculated the interval.

So x squared over to evaluate a three and one is going to become nine over to minus one or two, okay, and then plus,

and then we're going to integrate our evaluate this function at four,

so that's going to be six times

for which is 24 minus four squared over to, there's going to be 16 number two, which is eight, okay,

and then minus

the function evaluated at

three. So six times three is a

minus three squared over to, which is going to be nine

over to minus nine. Number two. Okay?

Alright,

so let's do some simplified here,

number two, minus one over soon, it's going to become eight over to, which is for

right, so then

I'll just bring down the plus 24 minus three.

And then I'm going to distribute the negative as well. So it's going to become

minus 18 plus nine over here.

OK,

now the rest is just adding stuff up, right?

So four plus 2428

minus eight

is 20. And 20 minus eight is to to now we got to do two plus nine. Number two, two is four plus nine halves.

And as a fraction or answer should be 13. Okay.

All right. So let's talk about number 26. So if

you understand that,

then

easy time figuring out so you have the absolute value of x squared

minus four plus three,

we bring that absolute value function with

respect to

x from 04.

So for somebody want to recognize that x squared minus four exposed to the respectable

the absolute value of x minus three x minus one. Okay,

now we want to figure out, when is this

going to be

positive? And what is this number goes negative.

So this is where you use a number line.

So this is the part where you just make a little number line one in three, because, you know, the mastermind this function is going to be zero.

And you figure out well, okay, what is this going to be negative, and when is this going to be

positive? Well, if we plug in, and number that's less than one, like say zero, that's going to be zero minus three, which is negative three times negative one.

And that's going to be a positive number.

So

now we know is positive there

between one and three, let's say we plug into that seem to be negative one times one,

and that's going to be a negative number,

and then to the rise of three, like saying plugin for, that's going to be one times three, which is also going to be a positive

number. So

knowing that this is a positive number, for all numbers, little less than one in greater than three, and that it is negative, or the numbers between one and

three, we can split this up

into a piece of ice function,

right, so the absolute value of x minus three

times x minus one

is equal to or function

is x minus

three times x minus one,

x minus three times x

four x

axis between

three and one, and is x minus three,

again, times x

minus one

when x is

greater than three.

So there we go. And since it's zero, anyways, that one and three, we can just

put that out there. So now the function is defined for the values of x, okay? Okay,

so that being said, we're going to split this up

into three

integrals here. Okay, we'll split it up into three integral. So this is going to be called the integral from

zero to one,

because one is where

it's going to change signs of this function

x minus three times x minus one, or I told I'm actually just going to multiply back out to x squared

minus four x plus three

x plus.

And then we're going to integrate from one to

three,

this function here.

So this is going to be just the opposite of x squared, minus four, plus three,

so that's going to be negative x

squared, plus four x minus three with respect to x.

And then lastly, we're going to integrate from three to four,

this function. So this is going to be the integral from three to four x,

I'm just

going to multiply that function out. And that's going to be x squared minus four x plus three,

right? There we go.

Let's just evaluate these angels. Okay,

so

integral of x squared

minus four x plus three with respect to x is going to be x cubed over three minus

four x

squared over to incentivize the two x squared

and then plus

three x,

and that will be evaluated at zero and one,

and then we're going to integrate negative expertise

for

x minus three,

which is

negative x cubed over three. So it's basically going to be the opposite of

this, right? And then those can be plus two x squared minus three x evaluated at one, three. Okay.

And then lastly, in April of this function is the same as the April of this function.

So once again, we'll have x cubed over three minus two

x plus three x, and that will be evaluated at three and four. Okay.

All right.

And then

the last part, now we just evaluate,

right, so

evaluated one is going to become one third minus two plus three,

and then evaluated zero, that's just going

to become zero, right? So we're done with this person, girl, okay,

let's calculate this one over here. So this is going to become

plus evaluated at three, that's going to become negative 27 over 3217 number three is nine. So that's going to be negative nine.

And then three squared is nine times two is going to be team

and then minus three times three, that's going to be minus, okay,

similar stat. And then lastly, this function evaluated at

three and four, so plus, oops, I didn't evaluate it,

right?

So minus

is this function evaluative one,

which is going to be negative one third,

plus two minus three.

OK, so now that takes care of this and roll over here.

Yeah, so now

we just got evaluate this one for, so that's going to be

plus

or so the third over three,

that's going to be 64 over three.

negative two times four is going to be

eight. And then three times four is 12. Okay?

And then the minus the same

thing evaluated at three. So three cubes, this 179,

negative two times three is negative six.

And then three times three is going to be mine.

Oh, oops,

you're right. So

it's a basket to be

this minus 18, right?

There you go.

Which by the way, if you notice, nine minus 18 plus nine is going to be zero. Yeah, and similarly, negative nine plus 18 minus nine is also going to be zero. So please,

zero. So really, just these three these three these three things. Okay,

so all pause it here for now. And we

got one

minute left here, and we'll finish going over this and the other

problems. Okay, so hold on to working with them. Tomorrow. We're going to

play to battle the testimonies. I


Alright, let's uh let's

go ahead and get started

today

ourselves to comes up

with a new exercise the latest

up to one exactly the fundamental.

So

it's going to be based on the main value theorem as well as some other things that we've

been talking about right in this class. So let's make sure we

review

of some concepts here. So first off, which of these

concepts is true here? Is that f is continuous implies that this differential

or is it at being differential implies that at this

okay? We're in other words that can continuity implied different stability or is this

differential ability like continuity? Which one

would

be y differentiable? It implies

continuity right? If you know function is differentiable right as a as a derivative everywhere, then that means it must be continuous

All right, that's true

next what does it mean Belize interstate

reschedule the picture? So

let's get a picture. First of what that means. Valley theorem, the same

right out there,

I have a function that is continuous and differentiable over old is called

as a and I'll just be say that type of access for that looks like like that between AMD

Okay, then

what for me value

is continuously and differentiable over

indeed, if I get the season line between angels, and

then there's the guarantee that at least one value

see between envy has

a tangent line that is parallel

to the

second line. Okay. Okay,

guaranteeing right. If the function is continuously differentiable, there's at least one point here that has a slope is equal to the second line between

the

right words, if app is continuous

on

the closed interval from a to b,

continuous on the interval from a to b, and it is also differentiable

on the open animal, or maybe he doesn't have to be their first

week, then

there is at

least

one value

see

in the open

such

of see, is equal to f of the apple over, right,

so that slope of the tangent line at sea

should be equal to the slope of the second line between the

airport other words that are required to tell you, okay, those are two or three of f of x equals x

squared.

What is the integral of f of x with respect to x on using

the power role for integrals, I'm just going to be execute or three constant, okay,

if we call that g of x, what is the relationship between g

of x and FX? Well, the relationship is that the derivative

of g of x should be equal to f of x, right?

The

definition of the anti derivative.

So who's the anti derivative of whom? Well, g of x

is greater than

or enhance, I'd rather.

Alright, so there's that. Next,

let's find value integral

from the definite integral from one for x

squared, using the limit process, I promise, this will be the last

sketch and estimate

first, okay,

so we're integrating from once for x squared, we're going to find the limit

limit as an

entity of the summit from it goes one, two, and f of ci times delta, right?

basically getting a real on sun, right?

Because like x squared between one and four, okay,

so

let's figure out what delta x times the

delta x by the length of the some interval, it's going to be the length of the entire minute intervals for minus one divided by the number of seven intervals, which were just assign this end

over again, okay,

we want to see I

going to be able to

all that is going to be the left most the left of the animal, but we're using the right hand rule. Okay,

we're going to use the

left of the interval and that's possible tools of the length

of a sabbatical. So there, there's going to be one plus

three over and tons of it. Okay,

all right. Well, you know,

this is once we found the limits as a purchasing

in the summation of

the negative adult diapers

three over and

times FMC AI, which is one plus three

one plus three over

plug this in

into x squared, because that's the function that we're

by finding the area under

infinity of separation from equals one, two, and

three over end times

one plus three over x squared, which will be one plus six I over n plus nine i squared over n squared. Okay,

there we go.

And then I'm going to distribute the three over

and this is going to be coming around approaches infinity of the summation revivals, ones, and a driver and times one is three over and

river in time six over x going to be meeting I over x

squared. And then

three ever and time tonight, I swear over n squared is going to be 27, i squared

over and Q. Ok. And then let's get the combination of all three of these things here. Okay,

so this

becomes the limit as and approaches infinity. Okay,

that's

going to be

somebody should have three ever and that's a constant. So that's

going to be three over n times n

plus the summation of 89 Red Square, that's going to be 18 over n

squared

times summation of five,

which is n times n plus one over two plus.

And then the last one is going to be 27 over

and cube

times the summation of i squared,

which will be n times n plus one times to

n plus one.

All over six. Okay,

can get stuff out and can cancel out eating divide by two becomes nines

and 10s. Load one of the items down here,

27. Number six, we can divide the top and bottom by three and get to and

not a number two, right,

hold on.

Oh, right. Yeah, we end up canceling, cubed Internet, and squared. Okay.

All right there. Yeah, we're good. Okay,

so let's,

let's

fix this real quick.

So we get the limit as an approach infinity of, that's going to be

three.

And then this is going to be nine

times n plus one, which is nine

plus nine over in.

And then this is going to be a,

so n plus one times two angles. One is going to be two x

squared plus three x plus one. And then we'll multiply it by nine.

And we'll get 18.

And squared plus 27 plus nine. There we go over to over to in sweat. There we go. Okay,

cool. So now we got that. Okay,

so let's let integration affinity for all of these years. So

that's going to be

three plus the limits and approaches infinity of nine plus nine over and it's going to nine. And the limit is no versus infinity of this

whole thing is just going to be eating over to

which becomes nine as

well. Okay, so we got three plus nine plus nine, and that's 12 plus nine.

And we finally get 21. Okay,

so that is the value

is the value

of definite integral from norms for

x squared dx. Okay. It's not

a limit of a separate parts

doing it. So we can make a common denominator. One big question, but do you have to do that?

No,

no, you can just do them separately. Yeah, absolutely.

These are my opinions. But you want to go

there we go. So there's that

well, though, we're going to do it right. Okay. Okay.

Number

five, right?

definition of definite integral from a to b

connects with respect

to x. So just using the limit rule, that is going to be the limit as damn

infinity, summation, or minus one and MCI

times delta x, right? That is,

that's what that is, right? That's just the

limit definition of a of the definite info.

So let's right

definition of f g of x is an anti derivative

of f of x with respect to x,

then by definition, that means that the derivative of g of x

is equal to f of x. OK,

now we're about to have one value theorem to g

of x. But let's make sure that we understand how can we be sure that we can apply them evaluate them

for the function g? Well, if God

is differentiable, right?

If we've defined g

as the anti derivative of that back, then we know that she has a derivative, which is equal to x. And if it's differentiable,

then is

continuous, okay.

And if Jesus differentiable and continuous,

then we can apply the knowledge, right?

Because those are the two things that have to be true in order to apply them evaluate them to function. Okay,

so now that we know that Jesus differential in

continuous, we can apply a new value there to G.

OK, so number

eight Figure shows function g and follow number six, right?

The conclusion of the valley there as it applies to G on the interval from

x equals eight x equals was calling x one, okay,

can illustrate your conclusion on the ground. Okay, so

let's

write the value if we get

the slow

if we create the 10, the second line between a

right this one here

and this one here,

at

least one, there's a guarantee that at least one value

will call this see one

as a tangent line, right?

It's tangent

line is going to be parallel to the second line between a FA or God, in this case, x one G, except one. Okay,

so let's write that out. What we're saying is that g prime, see someone is equal to the slope of the second line, which is G attack sub one minus g of A divided by x one minus a, right that is the slope of the tangent line is equal to this world of mistake. Okay,

so

let's apply this thing

here to remind

not

be here on the next

show shows that the graph of f of x

shows we drop the F of X number six. Okay,

let's see one C to C three all the way to see stuff and

be assembled points determined by the main value there as In problem number four. Okay, as

it we've chosen see one as the

line as the point that has a slope

of the tangent line that is equal to this open the second line we've chosen see to as the point of that as tangent line that is equal to this open the second line between next one next year. Okay, so we're not choosing the midpoint. We're not choosing, you know, we're not using the right hand rule that tenable we're choosing the point that specifically

it's guaranteed by the main value, okay,

so we write the some RM right we're getting into some

of these

and rectangles here for the integral from a to b f of x

with respect to x using the SAM what is an eagle

delta x value to show remote some on the graph. So just to be clear,

right we're using see one, so the first

rectangle here

is going to have a high of FFC one

so we're using the value of f of x FC one to determine

the height of that first rectangle

we're using see to

to determine the height of the second rectangle

we're using the same

three to determine the height of the third rectangle and so forth and so forth. Okay, so what is the area of all of these rectangles?

Well our end

is going to be equal to

the area of the first rectangle

which is going to be the heights which is f of x sub one on a FMC website you one right

see one determine the height of this rectangle

times the height or the times the width of this rectangle

which is the difference between x one and page so that

is x one x one minus age as the areas the first rectangle okay the area the second

rectangle is going to be FFC to that is a tight

times

the width of the second rectangle which is going to be x two minus x one

okay

the area the third rectangle project is

going to be seen three FFC three times X

sub three

minus x up to

right and that's going to go all the way down right never

see four times x or minus x

three all the way down to this last rectangle here is let's draw the plus rectangle by the way

okay so this last rectangle

here the end right title

is going to have a heights I'm just gonna put it down here the height is going to be f of c sub n times b minus x

sub n x minus one

A B minus x minus one okay so we're just

adding and rectangles together

right and area and rectangles

together okay so

here's a bar

by the definition of an indefinite integral

we defined g of x to be such that Jeep running backs is equal to f of x

so that means g privacy one

is equal to ever seen one and that's what we're going to replace with all of these here

okay

so FMC one we can set up for chief privacy one efforts into the setup for

YouTube and

so forth and so forth so our end right the area which is by the way the area

under the script okay

our end is going to be equal to

g prime of see one times x one minus x one minus a

plus FC to we can replace it from chief

privacy to

accept two minus x one

and then g ever see three we can replace g prime of c sub

three times x

minus x two

okay so far from so forth all the way till we get to the last one

she Brian of

season n times b minus x sub n minus one

right and by the main value

so now we're applying the main value

and if we've chosen c one c one c three as the valley that is guaranteed

by the main value there

then implies that you probably have seen one

should be equal to the slope of the secret line between the points at K XM one

or another words do you find we've seen one is equal to g of x one minus GOP divided by x minus a GMC sub two is equal to like g of x two minus x one divided by x two months next one and so forth. And so five appropriate substitution show that the room on some proposal number nine equals GP.

So let's go ahead and do that are

emphasizing

equal to So g prime of see one is

equal to this, right, the slope of this even line

so that is g of x someone minus g of A over x minus a, okay,

times x, so one

over x minus a

plus and then replace g privacy to

with g of action here, g of x two minus g of x sub one over x two minus x one

times x minus x

one, okay,

and then g plan will see three we're going to replace, I'm actually

going to new line here,

we're going to replace g of

x three

minus x three clients, g of x two lot divided by x three minus

x sub two, times x sub three minus x sub two, okay, that I'm going to skip a few here in the middle,

and then go all the way to the last rectangle. So g price of si n is equal to GE

t minus g

of x sub n minus one

over the minus

minus x sub n minus one and then times b minus x minus one. Okay,

so we've just made appropriate right replacements using the mean Valley right

so now let's take a look at what happens here.

So one minus eight by by x minus one minus eight cancels out right back yourself to one

or two one

was cancelled out as well, these counselors or these cancel

out

as well. Okay,

so what are we left with g

of x one minus a plus g of

x two

minus two x one plus g of x up three minus two x two. Okay, let's take a look at what are we left with it right, we're left with g of x one minus a plus g of x up to minus g of x one plus g of x three minus g of x two all the way to

she be minus one

minus one, sorry. And then if you notice

here, g of x, one minus x,

one cancels out single, there's

three, that's going to cancel out as well. And

then eventually, they're gonna have to accept n minus one

in here somewhere, that's going to cancel out with this G

of X

seven minus one. So what are we left with, in the end, this

some

in the end, the only things that didn't cancel out or negative g have a and positive G, A, B.

And if

we reverse these two,

and we get G, A, B minus g, okay,

and this

is where you're supposed to go.

So

I want

to just point out something

looking for we use the limit, some we used to limit property, we're

not even the limit probably right,

we just turned it into an rectangles to get the area that's under this perfect between

Andy. And what

we found out is that this entire area, when you calculate it all in the hands free, choose the right points

here, using the value that

ends up just being the anti

derivative evaluated at the edge.

And the difference between the two, right? That's what do you have x is the anti derivative of f of x. So this leads us to

the fundamental determine, which is

the answer Problem number 10 is an independent variable,

fill in the blank,

if we are taking the definite integral of FX

with respect to x, or b2b, and it is legal to G, A, B minus gene have a where

GFS is defined

as the anti derivative of f of x,

or enhance it. Okay,

so basically, you just evaluate the anti derivative of

f of x, okay,

and then evaluated a few endpoints so attracted to, and that gives you the value of the anti derivative, or in

other words, the area under the curve of f of x,

the x axis, OK,

so the conclusion that we just made here is called the fundamental thing with calculus,

show that we

understand what it says that you're using It's fine, exact value

of integral from one to four x squared

with respect to x. Okay, so let's go ahead. And

so here's how this works.

Integral definite integral from one to

four x squared perspective, okay,

calculate the indefinite integral export

going to be

x cubed over three

plus the concept.

And then what we're going to do is we're going to evaluate this anti derivative

of one

and subtract them from so Okay, so this anti derivative evaluated at four

is going to be for cubed over three

plus seed. And

so here's the anti derivative, evaluating the four. And we're going to subtract that from the anti derivative evaluated at one,

which is one cubed over three, four, see

why these a little bit for

Q to 64. So we get 64 over three plus C. And then

one cubed over three is one third. And I'm going to distribute the negative so that's going to be negative one third, and then minus

C,

he sees

cancel out which they already showed, by the way, whenever you

evaluate a definite integral Caesar gonna end up canceling now.

And then 60 over three minus one third

is 63 over three, which is

equal to

21,

which is the answer that we got the number for

the fundamental

data calculus is something that we can use to

evaluate the panel, instead of having to use will limit, okay,

but we needed to limit definition to burn that this,

this one will actually works

and

questions about that.

So now you know how to belly with a

linear process.

Let's try that again.

Let us do a together

anyway, from zero

to one, two x with respect to x. So that is going to be honest, evaluate the integral have to accept that it's going to be

two x

squared over two plus the constant

can then choose can cancel out. So we're left with

x squared plus a constant evaluated at zero. Okay,

so I want the

value of this integral and going to evaluate the anti derivative at one and zero

and then subtract

them from each other. Okay,

so this is going to be one

one squared plus c

minus zero squared plus C,

which is going

to be one plus C

and then zero squared, zero plus years when DC

and then source attract and C.

So C minus C cancels out and you're left with one

confirm that

answer by getting the

value of this integral using geometric definition right? If you grab two x between zero and one and find the area of that triangle that informs

between the rap in the x axis you can find out that area

under the curve is actually equals. Okay.

All right, class. We still got

about four minutes. Why don't you go ahead and just work on the

rest of these. I wanted to mention this

to the internet

we have an open area


All right, let's go ahead and get started here.

So today, we

are still in section three.

And today

we're talking about three months

can be used

to evaluate.

So remember one thing that the definite integral, basically the basic terms of a basic enable, because that is finding the area under the curve between two human values

of x ray. So let's say this is a, let's be, let's say this is f of x.

And if we look at the area under the curve of FX, right,

then this area, that

area is equal to

e, f of x

x.

But what we're going to talk about today

is how you can evaluate this using a remote, right,

because we also know how to take

on the area

under the curve on that backs it up right angles

and get the area of those rectangles area

under the curve between me and the

right. And in fact, if we make them the rectangle small enough and let enterprises infinity, then we end up with the exact area under the curve. This is exactly what

Okay, so that being said, let's talk about the definition

of

a definite.

So here's

the definition of

it a close interval

and

the

limits

of persons infinity,

the summation,

see

delta x

is based on time, okay,

is also defined,

then

yes,

as it has an integral

integral

level from A to B.

And

following equation will be

integral

X

the X

equal to women

and approaches to infinity,

summation

times delta

x, I

basically saying

is that if you have a function

that has an integral over a specific animal, right,

that has an emerald that exists over a specific interval,

then we can figure out the value of the definite integral of the function over that interval

using the limit process, right?

The limit in summation process

that we use that we've used previously to get the area under the

curve, right, which is basically getting the area of an

infinite adding up the area of an infinite number

of rectangles. Okay, that's basically.

So

that being said,

let's do an example.

Unless

process.

OK,

OK, so the five want to integrate to x with respect between negative one,

somebody

I want my work, I also want to keep in mind that this is finding the area under the curve to x

between negative one into right, if I were to grab to

negative one to finding the area between that curve and the XX. That's exactly what this is going to do here as well. Okay,

so

we're getting the

limit. Right? As enterprises and 74 miles ones or something

and right angles. Who's area

this? MCI

times delta x five, okay, delta

x, IBM, the length of sustainable

MCI the

right, the right hand, or left 10 in points will just use my handle in this case, right.

So as the height of each of the rectangles, okay,

so let's be grown with the value each of these are first, right, so

So

delta x.

So as we said, this, the width of a sub interval, so we get

the width of the interval by taking

the width of the entire animal, which is going to minus negative one divided by the number of animals that were

using, which is

going to be end framework, splitting it up

to minus one

is three

over and like there's a delta x i, OK. And then let's figure out what cis

and we're going to use the right hand, right, so we're just

getting basically the right, okay,

so ci,

using the right hand rule. So right hand,

and

it's going to be equal to, right,

the very first, the left hand left most part will be enrolled, which is negative one,

plus a multiple of the length of

the summit. So that is three

times, Okay,

so the first, right and and point is negative one plus one over n. And the next one is going to be negative one, plus

two times three over

the next one, another one for three times

the river and so forth. Okay. And, in fact, the negative one,

plus three. Okay,

so that's our CI. Okay,

so we'll plug this in for See, I've been the same for delta x.

And then we're just going to go ahead and get that summation. Okay,

so this is going to be equal to

the limits

as

an approach infinity of the summation four miles one to end up, I'm just going to write those and excited for so that's three

over

and

see that

some three over and times

times f,

or right hand and point which is negative one plus three

I over and

Okay,

an F of this

be like half of x is

equal to plug in negative

one and x. And that's

going to be limited

infinity of

summation from it was one, two, and three over end times, right,

times two

times negative one plus three.

All right,

there

are six

over

distribute that over negative one, three

steps here.

And of course, and

dissemination from idols one, two, and six

times negative one, that's going to be negative six over man,

and then six

over and times three is over, and

is going to be 18 I over and

square positive 18 times

I'll rewrite this stuff on the other side, okay, so that's going to be the limit limit has and approaches infinity of negative six over

and summation from high

equals one and six over and negative six,

negative six over n plus 18 I over and square, right? Yes. Okay. So there we go.

And then let's go ahead and start performing the summation

tier.

So negative six over in

as far as the summation goes is a constant, right, because it's in not in terms of

the limit

and versus infinity,

or I'll just leave this as a concept. And so this is going to become the

summation,

some differences, but somebody

should from I was wanting to end up just negative six over again. And then plus the number the meeting I ever n squared,

I'm going to take out the at number one squared, because that is a constant in terms of the summation, right? It's not changing as I changes. So I'm just going to be competing over n squared times a summation from I was one to end of just

okay.

All right,

now, let's use the summation rules here.

Negative six over it is a constant.

So when we some other concepts from idols, one to end, it's just going to become their constant times. And so this is going to become negative six and over again, right?

Plus 18 over

n squared times as somebody should have by from libels one to end it's going to be n times n plus one or two

times

n plus one

over to

right. Okay,

let's do this in mind here,

these cancel out,

18 divided by two becomes nine.

And this end in general, I would want to be ends from the

square here, okay.

All right. So this becomes a limit as an

approach is infinity of, now, this is just negative six.

And this over here is a nine times n plus one

through nine and plus nine

over, right, so let's not

over, okay,

so

as and

approaches infinity, the constant negative six is

going to remain as negative six.

And the limit is no versus infinity of nine plus nine, number nine

is going to become nine over one or nine, so we get negative six plus nine

equals three. Okay,

so what we just found

was the integral from negative one to two

to x

dx, okay,

so we use the limit process, right, the limit summation process to figure

out the value of this integral, because we know that the value of this is the

area between the curve

have two Macs and

and the x axis negative one. Okay.

Now, to show you that this is actually the correct answer, let's actually take a look at the graph of two x

minus one. And let's use the geometric methods to figure

out

the value of this.

So some

graphs,

so

here

too late.

And you also need this value, negative one, because I did one nothing, nothing

like the route into the routing

x intercepts of zero. And then at x equals negative one is going to be

negative, right.

And that equals two is going to be for someone to

use force. And here is the graph

of two x between

between negative one.

So we're finding the area between the curve

between the two X the X axis between negative one and two.

And what we're finding is the area of

this triangle here.

Well, we're also finding the area

of this triangle here.

OK,

now, I wanted to know something

that when you calculate the area between the

curve and the x axis, and the purpose

below the x axis, this areas

so below x axis, just know that when the

area is below the

x axis, that means

that the integral

that the value of the integral is going to be

okay, so we'll get the area of that area. Okay,

so let's get the area here. OK, so the area is going to be one half be

some type in the base in this case, is two times the height, which is for someone, half times two is one time

sport is equal to board, okay, and the

area of this triangle below the x axis, or

the base that is one

is going to be one half times

one times the height, which is too

so once I'm two is two times one half, I just wanted to be one, okay?

But again, spelling is negative.

So

by one integral from negative one to

two x with respect to x,

that is going to be the area of this triangle that is above the

x axis for

was the opposites of the area of this triangle below the x axis. So the negative one and four plus one

equals three, right? And notice

just getting the area of these triangles

same area by taking live by splitting up these key areas here, infinite number

of rectangles and

adding up the area of those rights. That's basically what we did to get to get that by using the submission process and that

approach.

Any questions? Okay,

so now

we're able to evaluate when he goes through the

process, okay, this is going to allow you to

function even if it doesn't create, you know, familiar to you, okay.



